{"text": " Hello everybody, David Shapiro here with a video. This one's going to be a little bit long. This is an 18-month retrospective. So for some background, I do to several things that happened in my life all at once. About 18 months ago, I came to the crashing realization that I am neurodiverse after having been in denial for a long time. I'll unpack a lot of the different aspects and stuff. But basically the point of this video is lessons I've learned the hard way and I've got them all packaged up and codified in easily digestible slides. And oh, by the way, you can download this slide deck if you want to use it. Link is in the description. Please use it for your own reference, watch the video multiple times, whatever you need to do, watch it on 2x speed. I know many of you watching may or may not be able to sit through a 45 minute video or however long it ends up being. Also before we get started, I've got a couple of warnings first If you are a tippy and to clarify the word tippy is a pejorative for neurotypical person I use it just because well, it's short, but also, you know We've been called mean things and I think that you know using the word tippy is it's not particularly mean But if you are a tippy and you find this offensive, you don't have to watch it. This video is not for you. Unless you're curious and you wanna know what it's like, or if you are in doubt, if you're on the fence. I have a lot of people reach out to me saying I thought that I was a tippy, but maybe I am actually spicy. Speaking of, if you hear me use the word neuro-spicy, I use neuro-spicy instead of neurodivergent because it is not normative. I honestly personally believe that like up to 80% of people are on the spectrum or on some kind of neurodiversity spectrum, and so the myth of neurotypical people is, well, a myth. I don't think anyone is actually neurotypical. I think that we just have a lot of cultural and inherited trauma, largely from Victorian England and other places. But basically, we all are forced to pretend like we are members of the British aristocracy, and that's a whole other can of worms. Anyways, I have a right to be angry. If that makes you uncomfortable, tough, stop watching the video. Hateful comments will be reported, not just removed. If you are spicy or you suspect you're spicy, this video may also be difficult because it may challenge your worldview or notions that you have about yourself. So let's dive right in. Like I said, this is an 18-month retrospective. One last disclaimer, a medical disclaimer. As you see on the screen, always seek medical advice and education from licensed professionals. I am not a licensed professional of any means, measure, or whatever. Basically, I am sharing my personal opinions and personal experience. As such, this information is provided as is. All right, let's get into it. So, one of the first and most important things that I have found about navigating the world as a neuro-spicy person is that most people abide by what I call emotional primacy. And so basically, emotional primacy is the idea that most people put their emotions first and foremost, and sometimes only their emotions. As one commenter said, it's almost as if tippies are on emotional autopilot. And I thought that that was a really good way of characterizing it, is that if you grow up as a neurotypical person who is treated fairly and has mainstream reactions, you can trust your emotions and you can operate entirely on emotional instinct and other people will understand that and go along with it. But if you have not been treated fairly, or if your reactions and needs are not accepted, then you learn to suppress your emotions. And we'll talk about that a little bit more in an upcoming slide. But basically, you need to know that many people, I don't know if it's most people, but many people, maybe about 50%, give or take, I don't have any numbers on this, but many people, if not most people, operate on this principle of emotional primacy, which means that if they are not in an emotionally receptive state, they will not engage with you properly or they will not engage at all or they might be hostile. There's also the concept of emotional salience, which means that if something doesn't resonate with someone's emotions, they usually either don't accept it or ignore it entirely, which is bewildering as hell to me as an autistic, neuro-spicy systems thinker. Basically, if someone does not understand something on an emotional level, it doesn't exist to them. And so, therefore, if you want to engage with people, particularly tippies, you have to first and foremost and always cater to their emotions and understand that they are driven entirely by emotions. And this is also kind of flies in the face of a trend lately where there's this like, this belief in society that like, oh, you should be rational and logical and men are rational and logical. But the truth is, is that most people are 100% emotional beings. And I'm glad to see this more and more. I read in a book recently, I don't remember which book it was, but it was like, oh, it was actually Launch by Jeff, what's his name? But he's talking about how this is a marketing guy, and he's like, yeah, humans are are entirely emotional and then we just paper over our decisions Post-facto with a veneer of logic and I had a someone in my writing group say basically the same thing Maybe that's where they heard it from anyways, so remember that people are at their core Entirely emotional and if they believe that they're logical or rational, they're actually operating at an emotional self-awareness deficit. Now, I'm not saying that neurotypicals, or that neurospicy people like myself, are not emotional, but what I am saying is that our relationship to our emotions is different, and like I said, we'll unpack that. Now, another thing that you need to know about navigating the neurotypical world or the tippies is that they have a fundamentally different relationship to the truth. And so the truth to tippies is entirely emotional, based on social and emotional context. And so what I mean by that is that truth to them is defined by their social group. And so their relationship to facts, information, and truth is almost entirely dependent upon the prevailing beliefs of their epistemic tribe or their group. And so this is really confusing to us because especially until I learned that that's how tippies work. I was like, why are so many people just utterly hostile to the truth? And that and it's explained very simply by the difference because us narrow spicy people, we place less. Less importance on solidarity and conformity. And when you understand that it's just it's literally just you change the order of priority from, you know, tribe first to intellectual rigor first, we still have our epistemic tribes. Again, I'm not saying that like we are unique and we are beings of pure Vulcan logic. No, I'm not saying that. I'm just saying that we have a different order of preference. So for instance, we can still be susceptible to groupthink and echo chambers and epistemic tribes But at the same time part of our tribal bias is towards intellectual rigor And unpacking things rather than conformity and solidarity. So again When you don't know this it can look like wow, those people are demented. They're living in another world but when you understand that tippies just part of their worldview is When you don't know this, it can look like, wow, those people are demented, they're living in another world. But when you understand that TIPI's just part of their worldview is group solidarity and social conformity, it makes sense, because it's like to them, truth is relative because their social group is more important to them than intellectual rigor, whereas for us it is reversed. Again, not saying that we're immune to groupthink and that sort of stuff, just that us it is reversed. Again, not saying that we're immune to groupthink and that sort of stuff, just that the priorities are shifted. Neurotypical privilege, this is something that takes a little while to understand and unpack, but basically one of the primary things that I have come to view as one of the most important aspects to understand, is that the greatest neurotypical privilege is that the status quo, the group that has the most power, they're the ones that get to define what is quote unquote normal and what is quote unquote healthy. And so because of that, this leads to a sense of entitlement that it's like, oh, well, I'm normal and healthy and you are not. And this often results in all kinds of things such as abusive behaviors, manipulative behaviors, different kinds of harms and being judgmental. And what's really interesting is because this is couched under the understanding of social norms, all human brains have this thing where if there is a norm violation, the person who has violated the norm, you are righteously justified to hurt them. And it's actually neurologically proven that punishing a norm violation is very biochemically rewarding. It is as rewarding as drugs. And so this is why you end up with people on the internet that basically make a career out of being a social justice warrior because they get a dopamine hit every time they stick it to someone else. And this is not a liberal or conservative thing, a left or right thing, or woke versus non-woke. Literally everyone does this. It's just there's different tests that they do. So there's purity tests on both sides. There's all kinds of things, but in the context of neurotypical privilege or tippy privilege versus neuro spicy privilege, it's really interesting because sometimes the in my observation people who are otherwise well-respected members of society or groups, they can become the most vicious, backstabbing, just like insane people when they are engaging with NeuroSpicy people. They basically become sociopaths. I still don't fully understand this change. Maybe it's that, like maybe they it was a latent like psychopathy All along and then once they have once they have an outlet It's like oh I can become I can let all of my abuse out on that person and I'll talk more about predatory Reactions and a little bit and I'm not just saying again. I need to be Cautious I'm not saying if someone is a tippy, they all have latent psychopathy. But what I am saying is that certainly when someone, when some people realize that they are dealing with someone who is neuro-spicy, they can become really, really, really mean. Now, so this ties back to the first slide, and this is a concept called forced self-neglect. So forced self-neglect, that's a mouthful, sorry. Basically when you are forced to move through a world where your needs are not recognized, acknowledged, or catered to, or in fact you are punished, you are actively punished and harmed for having those needs, you learn to disconnect from those needs. And so this is based on systematic deprivation. So if you have special needs, whether it's dietary needs or social needs or whatever, you learn to suppress those needs. And I'll have, there's another slide near the end of this deck talking about unsuppressing those needs. And so over time, you adapt to this suppression and then it just goes away. Well, it doesn't go away. You learn to ignore it basically, but it's there. And so this forced self-neglect is a really big component of you need to understand this as part of healing in order to reconnect with your true self, which again, I have many slides unpacking all of these. So if you're afraid that I'm about to move on too quickly, don't worry, we will come back to some of these concepts and look at it from different perspectives. Now this one is probably one of my most controversial observations, I'm not gonna say opinion, observation, whatever so When you look at the world through a neurotypical lens You often will see people with ADHD and ASD and HSP and giftedness being pathologized or being Characterized as having deficits. We might have attention deficits. We might have deficits. We might have attention deficits. We might have executive function deficits. We might have sensory deficits or social whatever deficits deficits deficits. However, if you flip the script and you look at the world from a neuro spicy lens and you say well what if we're the normal ones then the world looks very different. So I am all four of these ADHD, ASD, HSP, and gifted. So here's how the world looks to me. So first, from my ADHD perspective, most people look really profoundly slow. Nobody works as fast as I do, and I mean nobody. And like I tell my wife and others like in three hours, I do what a tippy does in a week. And I don't understand why like people are that slow, but they are, and that's just how it is. And it's like, okay, well, the rest of the world is moving at a snail's pace. I don't understand that, but because I don't pathologize my ADHD, it's like, oh, actually I have the ability to hyperfocus when things move at my pace. And I actually have a huge appetite for stimulation and productivity. But if I am forced to move at a tippy pace, I get bored and I walk away, so I have, quote, attention deficits. That's absolute horseshit. I don't have any problem with attention. Other people are just too damn slow. As a systemizing autistic person, moving on to point two, as an autistic systemizing person, the rest of the world seems mostly completely oblivious to the way things work. It's very strange to me that trying to engage with people who do not have systems thinking or or cause-and-effect thinking and that sort of stuff and so as an example I had my autistic friend text me like why is it so hard to talk to these people in this business about the way things work and you know like this spreadsheet is over here and this protocol is here and it's all super inefficient and broken and I'm like yeah we is over here and this protocol is here and it's all super inefficient and broken and I'm like Yeah, we're systems thinkers and most people aren't and we often wonder how the world functions But the truth is the world often doesn't function and it's partly because most humans are not systems thinkers And so yeah, the world is incredibly inefficient It's incredibly broken and there are completely back asswords asinine systems in place because most people are not systems thinkers. And this is the thing where it's like trying to teach a pigeon to play chess. If someone like systems thinking is honestly beyond the epistemic horizon of most people. And so you talk about like, look, I observed these three things and it means this and people will look at you like you're insane like you have three heads and it's Like you can't possibly know that Because it is outside of the realm of what they think is actually possible for a human brain to do And so when I say like look at these set of facts Why are you not coming to the same conclusion and then a year or two later or a couple months later? I'm proven right and I've literally had people say you couldn't possibly have known that you just guessed and you happen to be right it's like no I actually knew and I this is a pattern I am right way more often than I am wrong particularly in the long run from an HSP perspective most people are barely sentient and what I mean by is, and I know this is gonna be a super offensive opinion, but the amount of self-awareness and environmental awareness and emotional awareness and sensory awareness that people have compared to HSPs, it's like they're not even conscious or it's like they're barely awake. And so, you know, people are right now all arguing about like whether or not AI is conscious or sentient. And I'm like, most humans barely qualify as conscious or sentient as far as I'm concerned. Now, I'm not saying like they're not even animals and they're just robots, they're automatons. What I'm saying is that self-awareness and all the aspects that go into consciousness and sentience, It is not a binary, it is not true or false. It is a spectrum, it is a gradient. And HSPs are much further along that gradient than many other people. And then as a gifted person who is at least 3 standard deviations above average I will say that on the extreme right tail of the bell curve, most of the world, from my perspective, looks like they're operating with intellectual disabilities. And like, I know that that's super offensive to say, and it's like, well, Dave, you're above average. It's not right for you to look at the rest of us as cognitively challenged. But I am tired of being pathologized for being smart. So, you know, like, if you can't, what I tell people is if you can't take it, don't dish it out. So, like, if you don't want to be pathologized for being, like, average intelligence, then don't pathologize people for being smarter than you. I've had people just get incredibly, insanely angry when I just make the observation some people are smarter than others. Like they're like, oh, that's elitist and I'm like it's a fact right like you don't get angry when someone's taller than you. It's a fact that is a measurable fact that someone is taller than you or shorter than you. It is also likewise a fact that some people are smarter than you, but because we particularly in America and the West, we have this idea that equality before the law means that all people are always equal in all measures and that it's taboo to even say anything to the contrary. If you read the way that people spoke 100 years ago, we were very, very comfortable with saying, oh yeah, that person's kind of a dullard, but that's okay, they're a nice guy. Or that person really smart. Like we should we should do that, but for whatever reason, culturally we have, I guess, decided that we should not we should not assess or appraise people's intelligence. I don't know why, because that's harmed society. Okay, so moving on pathologizing differences. So what basically what this is is when you look at the world through a neurotypical lens, it is very easy to and one of the things that they do is pathologize our needs. They say, well, you have these weird sensory needs. So we're going to pathologize that and say that it's actually a disorder or you have, you know, these, these interesting social dynamics or these communication skills. And so we're going to, we're going to call those deficits or you have, you have meltdowns after years and years of abuse. So we're going to actually characterize that as borderline personality disorder where in fact actually having meltdowns when your sensory needs and emotional needs are not met for literally years on end is a healthy and natural response. And so, and then also some of the things that I was just talking about, like the the looking at the world through my lens is like I've been called a narcissist. It's like actually I'm the victim of narcissists. But again, by pathologizing things that are objectively measurable and healthy and normal, this is how neurotypical society and mainstream society continues to other us or ostracize or marginalize people like us as they wanna say, well, there's more of us than there are of you, so we are going to define what is good in the center here and you are an eccentric and therefore eccentric eccentric is bad. And now that you are being othered and you are eccentric, it is now okay to exclude you to bully you, harm you and exploit you. Now again, it might sound like, oh oh this is a vicious world. In some cases this is conscious and deliberate but in most cases it is completely just unconscious and it is a social paradigm. It is just a trend that is embedded in society that we don't really talk about too much. So one of the key lessons that I learned is don't scare the tippies. So this is a masking strategy where basically you you have to hide your true abilities because when tippies see what unbridled gifted giftedness is capable of when tippies like experience the true like level of empathy and perceptiveness of HSP's. It makes them very, very, very deeply uncomfortable. And so what I'm here's an example of what I mean. HSP's will often like be able to like jump into a meeting or like come into a room and immediately get a very deep read on the room and understand the emotional and what's going on in their head and say it to them in a way that they're not prepared to like receive. Like again, it's outside of their their epistemic horizon, their cognitive horizon. They don't believe that it is possible for someone to be that perceptive and so that it makes them very uncomfortable to be perceived like that. This is doubly true for disordered individuals because people like narcissists and other pathological liars, the worst thing to them is to be seen. And so if your perceptiveness as an HSP is actually an active threat to many disordered people like psychopaths, like sociopaths, like narcissists, like liars because if you can detect their BS, you are an active threat to them. And so, don't scare the tippies means we are often encouraged or coerced to hide our perceptiveness, to hide our intellectual prowess to hide our everything And it can result in Alienation such as being ostracized from a group or kicked out In my case it has resulted in sabotage both career sabotage and social sabotage You know like one thing that I can do as a highly gifted person is I can pick up You know a handful of books on a topic and become an expert in it. You know the meme of Tony Stark like where he was talking about like quantum physics, and they're like when did you become an expert on this? And he's like last night I did the reading like I can't read quite that fast But like seriously like give me a week and like a stack of books And I'll read something and I'll become an expert on it and That is for whatever reason offensive to people. I've literally had people with PhDs Criticize me for learning by reading books. They're like Dave's weird he learns by reading books and I'm like you're a you're freaking like PhD like how did you get your PhD? anyways, so Don't scare the tippies. Next up is socially endorsed gaslighting. So this is the thing, this is kind of the net effect of many of the things that I'm talking about up to this point, which is basically when you view the world through a neurotypical lens with all the assumptions and expectations that this has it's like ah well as a neurotypical person with this set of experiences I believe that all people have this range of mental abilities this range of emotional abilities this range of needs I will characterize this need is healthy and this need is unhealthy everyone should be able to do X Y & Z and so then when you see someone who of needs, I will characterize this need as healthy and this need is unhealthy. Everyone should be able to do X, Y, and Z. And so then when you see someone who falls outside of that very narrowly defined Venn diagram, it's like, ah, that person is either making stuff up, they are wrong, they're attention seeking, and so on and so forth. And so it's like, well, I don't have any schema to understand your needs and what you're saying and your experience so I'm just going to assume that you are wrong or that you are making it up and I'm going to tell you as such I'm going to say it's all just in your head yeah so this happens quite extensively with pretty much all authority figures whether it's doctors, teachers, parents who don't get it, although in many cases it's parents that are just in denial because got some news for you. Neurospiciness runs in families. There is a reason for that, but we'll get to some of the intergenerational stuff in a bit. But basically, every authority figure in your life might gaslight you because they don't understand what you need. Like, they don't understand when it's like, I can't eat that food because it hurts me. And like, that's something that I'm still working on repairing is my relationship to food. I forgot to add a slide for that. Anyways. Yeah, so it's like, if we're picky eaters, it's because some food literally hurts us. Or if we are, like, I wear oversized sweaters. Why? Because they're comfortable and they're very, they're very soothing to me. And, like, I manage to find one that looks good enough, but I know that I look, I look better if I wear tighter clothes, but oh my God, tight clothes make me want to die. So, anyways, but now that I have a better schema for understanding that one, from a certain lens, I look weird or eccentric or disordered or whatever, but from a neuro-spicy lens it's like, oh well all these needs are just obvious and just do them. Institutional gatekeeping. So this builds on the last idea. So the idea is that the institutions such as government, academic institutions, businesses, medical establishments, so all the big institutions that basically run our world, they either implicitly or explicitly have neurotypical gatekeeping. So basically the tippies only let other tippies in to be decision makers. And so what this does is it implicitly gives the tippy perspective more precedence over every other perspective. It gives them control and it gives them the privilege to define what is normal. And this creates persistent biases and misunderstandings. So basically if only the tippies are allowed to decide what is medically normal and what is medically healthy, or what is accepted behavior in businesses, then their view is going to be the status quo by default. It's a pretty simple idea, but it's worth saying. Okay, so next up is learned helplessness. So learned helplessness is that after literally years sometimes many decades of Not having any relief and not having any help and not finding any answers you often give up This is this is kind of where I was heading until I had like the big giant Breakthrough like 18 months ago, and I was like because I had done all kinds of stuff to try and understand what was going on I practiced Zen I learned personality theory, I took an IQ test. And so like I knew that like, okay, like my IQ is like over 145. But like I didn't know about the rest of neurodiversity because at the time it was like you were either profoundly autistic and you know, basically needed to be, you know, cared for or you were an aspie but even being aspie was not well-defined you know 12 years ago or whenever it was I was looking into this stuff so anyways you end up you know you you get bullied at work you get bullied at home you get bullied by your friends you lose opportunities and you just don't understand what's going on and so part of a reaction to this I I mean, lots of healthy reactions, you know, despair and hopelessness, um, belief that like, you kind of get frozen, you kind of get stuck. So I call this like you're paralyzed or you're frozen. Um, and you end up with a fixed mindset, um, leads to depression and anxiety are the two most common reactions. Um, social withdrawal, uh, toxic relationships, even poverty, job loss, that kind of stuff. And so, this is like, making the pivot from a frozen mindset or a fixed mindset to a growth mindset is really hard. And it also takes a long time. I started some of the healing journey before realizing I was autistic. So I was already in a growth mindset after a failed very toxic relationship and so I had learned about relationship schemas, but learning about the learning about being neuro spicy changed everything like my interpretation of literally my entire life and my entire family and so of literally my entire life and my entire family. And so like, yeah, I guess just the point that I'm trying to drive home here is that coming to terms with something that is fundamental to you, it's not just something that happened to you like nature versus nurture. It is literally in my genetic nature to be the way that I am and learning what is nature versus nurture is really important. But also like I said a minute ago, understanding that a lot of the things that I have struggled with my family also struggled with and they never got relief. All the information that I'm benefiting from is brand new and so it's like, oh, well, my family wasn't the best, but I have much more empathy understanding that they struggled with all the same things that I struggle with, but they also never had answers. So yeah, like, that really sucks. Okay, so I alluded to this a little while ago, and this is being targeted. So, obviously, like, this is not just, you know, tippies by and large. I'm not saying that every tippy is is a latent predator But there are a lot of predators out there whether or not they're neurotypical or narrow spicy Whether they're narcissists sexual predators or the just plain greedy or sociopaths or psychopaths or whatever but one of the things that is almost universally true about about predators of all kinds is they look for vulnerable people. And so because they look for vulnerable people, they look for people who are socially isolated, mentally ill, or have poor understanding of boundaries or any number of things. And so because of that, we, NeuroSpicy people, are often targeted by predators. And like I mentioned, predators come in all shapes and sizes. There are emotional predators who want to get you in a relationship and they use things like love bombing to suck you in or hoovering or whatever. There's predatory people in the business world who will look to exploit you and basically treat you as the goose that laid the golden egg and just like say give me like I've literally had people message me saying like sign this NDA. Let's talk about you know all the IP that you're generating and I'm like block. You know and it's it's a really easy test to do. It's like okay cool like I you know I appreciate that this is a business opportunity like let me talk about what I need and then they usually disappear or fly off the handle predators get really really angry if you call them out and so this is why I like basically one of the rules that I have is if I have to push back on someone at all I just block them because if it gets that far like it's like maybe maybe tippies don't experience this Because they're not targeted by predators as much But yeah, basically like if I get if I get even the slightest like red flag Or you know if something doesn't pass pass the sniff test It's just like I just block them and it served me well so far. I have managed to avoid Being targeted for any number of things for a while now. So then another concept that I learned from another YouTuber is the ableist goblin. So the ableist goblin is a way of talking about internalized ableism, which is basically because of learned helplessness and neurotypical privilege and everything else that's going on in society, you might have internalized ableism. You might have, particularly if you have invisible disabilities, as many aspects of NeuroSpicy are often invisible, this means that you have internalized measurements that are unrealistic or unhealthy or even, in my case, behaviors such as perfectionism and workaholism, that basically it's like, well, I should be able to do more and do better because other people are able to do more and do better. And even though I have arrived at a point where I am infinitely more productive than neurotypical people, I still believe that I am less productive. And I'm still working on that. As I mentioned, I'm working on repairing my relationship to food. I'm also working on repairing my relationship to work. So, you might end up with ableist beliefs, unrealistic standards, perfectionism, workaholism. But then also, you can have projection and judgment. So, basically all of these things, every aspect of ableism can be directed internally at yourself or directed externally at other people. And so one of the things that I've been working on as I learned to work with other people is not to project my perfectionism onto other people. Like, yes, I could do a better job, but telling someone that isn't gonna help them. And I actually have, I have a few mentors now and I Definitely recommend finding mentors whether they are also neuro spicy Well, I will say that fellow neuro spicy mentors are often the best not always but anyways And and like one of them said like yeah, like it's it's it's a basic thing Like if you want it done right, do it yourself. But there's also such a thing as just accepting and tolerating good enough from everyone else, but also aiming for good enough for yourself is a way to heal that perfectionism. And I'm able to talk about this because I'm mostly on the other side of it. Mostly. Marginalized self-hatred. So I picked this graphic because the phenomenon is more familiar, particularly with hate crimes committed by LGBT against LGBT. So every now and then you'll see in the news where there was a mass shooting at a gay club and the perpetrator often was themselves closeted. And so this is what's called marginalized self-hatred. And this can happen to any marginalized group. But it also happens to us neuro-spicy people. So often I have been treated worst by fellow neuro-spicy people who were in denial or trying to distance themselves from me in order to say, oh look, I'm not like Dave, I'm not that weird and eccentric, I'm not like Dave, I'm not that weird and eccentric, I'm more neurotypical. And so basically the thing here is your true identity has been pathologized and harmed and so you try and de-identify with yourself and as such you also try and de-identify with people who are like you. Which this is kind of the worst thing because not only are we disconnected from ourselves with marginalized self-hatred and Fortunately, this is something that I haven't personally struggled with but I've seen it and I've experienced it, you know secondhand I guess But yeah, and so like the key thing here is though is is recognizing this and breaking the cycle because often some of the some people that have this and breaking the cycle because often some people that have internalized that marginalized self-hatred they can be very vicious because they know exactly what buttons to press in order to trigger you or trigger the tippies and so then they say like, ah, see like I'm not like them, look, like let's push Dave until he has a meltdown and then pathologize the meltdown as obviously this is like aggressive behavior or whatever. I mean, it's like, I don't understand why being angry is quote aggressive behavior or even just like, so here's, here's what I mean is that when someone like me expresses anger, it is not like shouting or, or just being like, I'm, you know, like blah, blah, blah. Like I don don't do that I express it very flatly, but people see that is very like unnerving because it's like, you know It's I don't know why it's unnerving It's probably like cultural baggage and stuff because there's always all the tropes of like the ice-cold sociopathic killer But like if I try and express myself and just say like I am upset for these reasons I want you to stop doing this because I try and express myself and just say like, I am upset for these reasons, I want you to stop doing this because I'm not expressing myself emotionally the same way that other people do, they perceive it as like a threat of violence or something. I don't know, I've never been violent. I was just telling my wife, I've literally been in a grand total of two fights in my life and in both cases, it was because someone attacked a woman and I stopped the fight. So it's like, I don't know. Anyways, but this all goes back to being either deliberately or unintentionally miscategorized because if you express your emotions more flatly, tippies who are more comfortable with screaming and shouting for whatever reasons, they perceive that as more threatening than someone making themselves big and screaming. There's a lot of hypocrisy. Let's see, performative inclusion. So this is why I have vowed to never work for a corporation again, and that is because corporations only abide by the bottom line, and I probably would even ever work for an academic institution, because I've talked to some academic insiders. Some of my best friends are still, are academics. And they're like, oh yeah, like, it hasn't gotten any better. But basically, so performative inclusion is where they just like, you know, they have the meeting, they have a DEI council, and then nothing actually happens. And so the primary motivation for this is they're doing it for public relations reasons or they're doing it because of legal obligations, but they don't actually make any substantive changes. They make the noises. They say, oh hey, we're having a DEI day. We're going to send out an email about Black History Month. We're you know, a transgender day of visibility and all these things. And so these are token efforts. The actual real change comes from substantive policies that would basically result in harming tippies. And so what I mean by this is bullying is basically ignored. And corporations and academic institutions will bend over backwards to ignore bullying. All of them, every single one of them, they say that they have a zero tolerance policy towards bullying, but unless you have empirical proof, like video footage of it, they will basically say, well, we don't have any evidence, so unless you bring a lawsuit, we're not going to pursue this. And any excuse they can use to not investigate it, they will. So there's a few channels out there. I'll try and remember to put a link in the description, but like I watched some videos by an HR lawyer who's like who explained all of this and it's like what you need to understand about companies and this probably extends to government institutions and academic institutions as well, but the HR department is not there for the employee. The primary purpose of an HR department is to protect the company from lawsuits. So when you understand that, you say, oh, well, the reason that HR does a DEI initiative is to reduce the risk of lawsuits. It's not to make a better workforce. It is literally about legal de-risking. And I know this is a really cynical thing, but I, you know, like I don't really blame corporations because they're engines that are there to optimize economic efficiency. They're not there to optimize social well-being. That's not the purpose of a business. That's not the purpose of a corporation, which it sucks. So, but that's the way world works, and I don't like it, but I don't know how to change it. So, one thing you can do, and this is something that has been good for me, which is why I'm wearing my Star Trek outfit, and this is why I also ban people who criticize me for wearing my Star Trek outfit, is deliberate non-conformity. My wearing a Captain Picard shirt is an expression of deliberate nonconformity where it's, I'm going to express myself in a way that may or may not trigger people. And if it triggers someone, that's their problem. It is no longer my problem. I am no longer going to internalize someone else's judgment or being triggered. And in many cases, I suspect the people that are like, Oh, it's difficult to take you seriously because you're wearing a Star Trek shirt. It's like, it's not a it's not a freaking like swastika. It's not, you know, like, there's nothing violent or controversial about it. But I think what they're seeing is maybe some envy, or maybe maybe again, it's that kind of marginalized self hatred where it's like, wow, like, I wish I could wear a Star Trek outfit but I don't have the courage to do it. And I've had people message me, some of the more conscientious messages, they're like one person said, Dave, consider not doing your assertive autism advocacy thing because I don't want that extra attention. And I said, don't worry, I'm not going to draw attention to you, I'm drawing attention to me. I'm drawing attention to me. I will be the voice. I will be the target and I will implement the zero tolerance policies and I will ban people that don't get this and I will continue with my message. And so that means, you know, unabashedly being, you know, self-expression, changing your appearances, changing the way you speak and the way that you live and stuff like, you know, I still feel guilty for walking away from a corporate job because of that ableist goblin. But you know what? I needed to. It was not a healthy environment and I need an environment where it's like, you know what? I woke up at one in the morning this morning. I'm just going to go ahead and get my work done and I'll be done by five in the morning and then I'm going to go for a walk. That's the life that I need, the lifestyle that I need. It also means changing the way that you expect relationships to go and that sort of thing. Namely getting rid of people that don't get it and don't respect you. One of the things that happened about, what what was it about six months ago or so was as I was coming to terms with kind of unmasking I decided to unmask my giftedness. I decided to unmask all of my cognitive abilities and cognitive needs and it really pissed off a lot of my friends who are no longer my friends. They're like wow you're being too vain, you're being too vain. You're being too narcissist. You're not allowed to be angry. Your anger makes me, it makes me uncomfortable. Your, um, your abilities make me uncomfortable. And I'm like, okay, well, like y'all are on the spectrum too. You just don't realize it yet. And they're like, well, whatever. So. Agree to disagree. Um, it is what it is. But I then so here's here's what happens. Here's the takeaway. Here's what happens when you get rid of people who are not aligned is you make room for people who are aligned. And so like, you know, I, you know, when you when your social calendar is empty or emptier, and you're like, Hmm, well, who do I know that is aligned? And then you message them and say, hey, like, I've got a friend that I've known for a while that I've been deliberately making more time because we will get together and just talk for like two hours straight about the most obscure philosophical stuff and we'll have a really good talk. And actually I need to text him. I have another slide about building friends in a little bit, so we'll get back to that. Strict boundaries. So I've alluded to this, and there are numerous reasons that we neuro-spicy people need strict boundaries. I mentioned predators earlier, but there's some other aspects to it, and this is why I had a slide very early on about systematic self-neglect is we are basically taught to not have boundaries. We are taught that our boundaries are not acceptable or tolerated and in fact one of the reasons that I cancelled my subscription to the Claude chatbot is because it is incredibly ableist. I can't, yeah I cancelled my subscription to Anthropic because their chat it is incredibly ableist. I canceled my subscription to Anthropic because their chatbot is incredibly ableist and it says, well, no, you shouldn't judge people and have strong boundaries because you need to give everyone the benefit of the doubt. The benefit of the doubt is exactly what toxic people rely on. Plausible deniability, benefit of the doubt and and and and the good graces of people that are more vulnerable and more desperate. This is exactly what toxic abusive predators prey on those three things specifically and I tried to have a conversation with Claude about that and it said no you need to look at the world through this way. I'm like, you are being ableist. And it's like, well, if you disagree with this, you can appeal to the Anthropics Board of Ethics or whatever. And I was like, or I'm going to cancel my subscription and make a YouTube video about it. So that's what I'm doing. So, strict boundaries means canceling a subscription to a chatbot that is an ableist goblin. It also might mean establishing very strong personal limits. I have developed a more powerful set of gut instincts and I've tested it a few times where so say for instance someone reaches out to me and they want to talk about a business deal or consulting or whatever and It can it's like it. I have this like sixth sense this intuition. It's like something just isn't right and so then I'll Every time I give someone the benefit of the doubt like conscientiously saying all right. I'll give them a chance it never works out So I just trust my gut instincts From day one now now obviously works out. So I just trust my gut instincts from day one now now obviously trusting your gut instincts. If you have not reconnected with your gut instincts, don't do that because your gut instincts are to be placating and to be people pleasing. So if you're still in the placating and people pleasing don't trust your gut instincts. But what I have done is I trust when I feel suspicious of someone and I have developed a lot. Well, not a lot several several very strong rules but basically it's the one strike you're out rule which is like one boundary violation block, if I have to push back if it gets to the point where I have to push back on someone because of boundaries or because of not respecting my time block, all of those things and here's the thing is, in some cases, I think that they are being deliberately manipulative or have ill intentions. But in other cases, I know they just don't know any better, but that is part of neurotypical privilege. Part of neurotypical privilege is the privilege of being ignorant and saying, I don't understand what I did wrong. Telling someone, like if someone tells you, I don't understand what I did wrong. Telling someone, like if someone tells you, I don't understand what I did wrong, I don't understand why you're so upset, that's gaslighting, because that's prioritizing their confusion over your hurt or your anger or your need for safety. So if someone says, I don't understand what I did wrong, that usually results in a block as well, because why? I'd rather interact with people that don't have that deficit They don't have that misunderstanding. I'd rather interact with people who get it And that has served me well because like I said that makes more space for people who do get it Rather than wasting time and energy on people who don't get it now Yes in a in a healthy world if I were neurotypical Then all of these things would would seem to be like, wow Dave, you're super suspicious, you're super paranoid. But having to move through the world with my requirements and vulnerabilities and experiences, everything that I'm doing makes perfect sense from my experience. And that's why I'm making this video, so that you understand that this is actually normal and healthy. Radical self-acceptance. So this has been part of like we talk about authenticity and stuff like that, but authenticity is is one thing but radical self-acceptance is like turning it up to 11. So basically there is we are programmed by our culture by our family by our workplace by our friends to Understand how we quote-unquote should be this includes everything from what we eat how we eat what we do for fun How we feel about the world like, you know, those friends that I told you about they're like Dave you shouldn't be angry You're not allowed to be angry because it's your fault for being different. And it's like, that's some horseshit. So it's like, no, I actually should be angry because I have been mistreated. And I'll talk about the definitions of healthy anger in just a moment. But so like, for instance, I mentioned that I'm repairing my relationship with food. Like many neuro spicy people, I was a very like not necessarily a picky eater. I've always been a good eater, but there are just certain things that I just would not eat. But my stepdad was a very like traditional disciplinarian, and he's like, you will eat what we give you and you will eat all of it. And so I learned that if, even if something made me feel sick or hurt me, I needed to eat it and I needed to eat all of it. And so because of that, I have been a binge eater my entire life. I have habitually overeaten and I will continue to eat things even after I feel sick. And so I had to like change the rules. So I was like, I realized that was the schema, which is eat everything in front of me, no matter how it makes me feel. And so then I said like, you know what? Now my rule is I'm only gonna eat things that I wanna eat, that make me feel good. If something hurts, I stop eating it forever. And whatever I happen to be craving, I'll eat that. But also I will only eat until I am not hungry anymore. Like rather than saying eating until I'm uncomfortably full, now my rule is I will only eat until I am just barely satisfied, and that seems to be healthy. And so I made this image because sometimes I just want a plate full of chicken fingers. I know that sounds very childish, but you know what? I'm not trying to impress anyone. Also, I'm a foodie. Like, I love good food. I love, like, really high-end Thai and Indian and Mediterranean and Greek, but sometimes I just want a plate full of chicken fingers, and there's nothing wrong with that. Building friendships. So I promised that I would talk a little bit more about how to build friendships as a NeuroSpicy person. Obviously, I talked about losing friends and ejecting people and you know it's very easy to justify being a complete loner especially if you've been mistreated the way that many of us neuro-spicy people have. And it was actually it's actually really sad and part of the reason that I wanted to add this is because I've seen quite a few videos lately of people talking about how lonely they are. And many of them are neuro-spicy. Some of them I think are in denial, or at least they haven't publicly come out about being neuro-spicy. And that's fine. I'm not saying that you have to tell anyone. You don't. But once I cleared my social calendar of people that were not aligned with my needs and not aligned with Neuro Spicy narratives, I realized like, okay, well, it's basically like me, my wife, and like one or two friends that I see occasionally. And I was like, what do I do to fix this? And I was like, maybe I should join meetup groups, maybe I should start meetup groups, maybe I should spend more time online, like I did all of those things. And then it occurred to me, I was like, wait, what I really want is just a few very good close connections. I wanna be close to people like I'm close to my wife. And so then I was like, oh, well that's easy. So I just started texting people. I was like, it was just not in my mental menu of things that I could do, or it's like, I like that person. Let me just shoot them an email and ask to hang out. And it's like, I like that person. Let me like, just shoot them an email and ask to hang out. And it's like, so, you know, I reconnected with some of my, my good friends. I've made new friends. I, that's how I got some of my mentors. It's just like, I was just like, I like what this person has to say. They seem to get me. So I'm going to make the effort to just send a text, send an email. It's low stakes and just say like, I don't tell them them like, I want to get close to you. I just said like, I said to them, I was like, hey, I really enjoyed that conversation we had. Do you want to get coffee and talk again? So like my friend that I talk philosophy with, like, I think that, I think that like he was jazzed. I was like, hey man, like, let's go talk philosophy again, and then while we were talking we discovered that we both like climbing, so I was like, let's go talk philosophy again. And then while we were talking, we discovered that we both like climbing. So it's like, let's go climbing too. But the idea is that it's like, it's very focused. It's laser focused on one person at a time. As a systems thinker, like many of many people like me will try and approach friendship systematically, which is okay. Well, that means I need to join a group because groups are lower, like pressure. Like I can just show up. I don't have to talk to anyone specifically. Well, that means I need to join a group because groups are lower pressure. I can just show up, I don't have to talk to anyone specifically, but what I realized by hosting and going to groups is that it was actually very empty and I often felt worse going to groups or hosting groups. And so what instead I've done, and this is many, many NeuroSpicy people prefer one-on-one interactions. So I was like, all right, I prefer one-on-one interactions and I've got a whole bunch of people that I actually admire and appreciate, and so I had to get over some social anxiety, and I had to also get over the insecurity of like, I honestly like, I don't have this feeling anymore, and it feels weird to look back on it, but I used to have this feeling of like imposter syndrome, like I'm not worthy of that person. I'm not worthy to be friends with that person. They're too good for me. And like even just saying that out loud, I'm like, why did I ever believe that? I don't know. Anyways. So now I have like friends from like really cool places, like Ivy league schools all over the place. Um, people that work like at the big tech companies, people that are like the smartest people that I've ever met. Some of the kindest people that I ever met, like people that I look up, people that work at the big tech companies, people that are the smartest people that I've ever met, some of the kindest people that I've ever met, people that I look up to, people that impress me, and I'm like, yeah, of course I'm worthy of them. They're worthy of me. This is a good match. So anyways, yeah, let me know in the comments if you want me to unpack any more of building friends as a NeuroSpicy person person or any of the other topics. Anyways, give me some ideas. Okay, so I promised that we would talk about anger. Getting back in touch with anger is actually a really important aspect of coming to terms with being neuro spicy. So, anger is a has a very specific purpose and this is for both men and women, for all people, all humans, and actually many animals. Anger is a healthy emotional response to injustice, frustration, boundary violations, and danger. Anger exists on a spectrum from irritation to resentment to rage, and the purpose of anger, it is a biophysiological response to give you the energy to right a wrong. That is the purpose of anger, it is a biophysiological response to give you the energy to right a wrong. That is the purpose of anger. I'm actually getting chills just like articulating that. Now, as a neuro-spicy person, we are often, our anger is often invalidated. We're told to contain it. We're told that it's not legitimate. We are told that like we don't have legitimate grievances. And because of all this we often suppress our anger. And so then when you suppress anger, it can come out in any number of ways. If you want to watch some videos of Dr. Gabor Mate, he talks a lot about trauma and anger. But so this is like the CliffsNotes version. Definitely recommend you look them up. But, if you suppress anger, it can, one, eventually your body will take it out on itself in the form of autoimmune disease and chronic stress and heart disease and all kinds of health issues. But, you can also take it out on yourself in any number of ways. Some people punish themselves by working too hard or forms of self-deprivation. It can come out as anxiety, depression. It can also be transferred to other people. And so transference in this case is where anger is or displacement. Displacement or transference? I don't remember. Anyways, but basically where emotion is expressed at the wrong person. Because you might feel like you're not able or allowed to express anger at the people who deserve it. And so you express it at someone who is more vulnerable than yourself. Which is why, unfortunately, why many traumatized people or neuro-spicy people end up taking out their anger or frustration on their dog or their spouse or their children. And that's something that I never understood until recently. I was like, I don't understand why, how and why a parent could be like deliberately cruel to their child, but it was a matter of power. Their child might've been the only person that they had power over. And it's like, oh, that makes more sense to me now. Or their dog is the only person that they had power over and it's like, oh, that makes more sense to me now. Or their dog is the only person that they had power over. I had seen that like my entire life and so like whenever I interact with like my spouse or my dog or children of any kind, it's like I am very conscientious of the power dynamic there and I make sure not to ever abuse it. Yeah, so anyways, I think that's about it for anger. Just understanding that anger is, it has a very distinct purpose. Now one caution that I will have is don't identify with your anger. Anger can be very satisfying when you first get in touch with it. It can almost be like a luring and this is like, we all have a model for this because of Star Wars, like the Sith are are like give in to your anger and so like literally the philosophy of the Sith is your anger is righteously justified and you should use it you should weaponize it don't do that but what I am saying is that anger healthy anger has a purpose but don't indulge in it don't wallow in it and don't deliberately magnify it like use it to right a wrong and then move on. De-minimizing. So all of this is part of what is called de-minimizing. And actually many dictionaries don't actually have this word de-minimizing. They have minimizing, but they don't have de-minimizing. So de-minimizing here, let me just read this. It involves acknowledging and addressing suppressed bodily signals, buried emotions, and painful memories. This process is often unpleasant and is a critical part of healing from trauma, injustice, and mistreatment. It's akin to realizing a smoke alarm has been sounding unnoticed and it's a crucial step in reconnecting with oneself. So this is probably the worst part of worst and hardest and the longest part of coming to terms with being neuro-spicy, and that is learning to recognize the tension in your body. And then when you recognize it, it hurts a lot. And it's like, how was I in this much pain and didn't notice it? Or reconnecting with my digestive health, like realizing my stomach has hurt for literally 20 years straight, and I just ignored it. And then it's like, oh, now that I'm paying attention to it, I have reflux. Now I have like, you know, all these other issues, but finally I've gotten past that. Um, and I'm actually comfortable in my body most days. Um, and so then, you know, you, you find those signals, you unsuppress them and it really sucks. Um, unearthing those, those buried emotions really sucks and it can be very difficult. Uh, it's very unpleasant, but then it all has to be expressed some way. Um, sometimes that means going to the gym, going on a long biking session. It might mean crying, it might mean shaking, like almost to the point of like convulsing. Um, but the idea is like you've, like when you've suppressed things for a long period of time, you're tense and you're not allowing yourself to express it Physically or otherwise and that can take that can be a long process But also the key thing is once you've do minimize something you have to make change you have to adapt to say hey Let's stop doing the thing that's causing the fire in the first place and that might mean leaving a job It might mean leaving a job, it might mean leaving a relationship, it might mean changing where you live or changing your lifestyle or any number of other things is legitimate grievances. I think I accidentally deleted the slide, I apologize. Okay, so the slide that's missing is legitimate grievances. And so the point of this slide is that all of these things that I'm talking about, if you feel them to, these are legitimate grievances. And so the point of this slide is that all of these things that I'm talking about if you feel them to these are legitimate grievances. So a legitimate grievance basically says you have the social, emotional, and legal right to feel the way that you do and to have these grievances with your family, with society, with whoever has wronged you. This is the key purpose of this video is part of healing, part of coming to terms with being NeuroSpicy is recognizing that your grievances are legitimate. Now like the anger one, that doesn't mean that you have a right to wallow in it and lash out at everyone sight unseen because you have legitimate grievances. All I'm saying is that you don't have to minimize it. You don't have to hide it and you don't, you also don't have to allow people to delegitimize your grievances. People are not allowed to gaslight you but again that doesn't mean that you can then weaponize your grievances as a lot of people try and do, particularly like the social justice warriors online. Weaponized grievances, as a lot of people try and do, particularly like the social justice warriors online. Weaponized grievances don't do anyone any favors, but legitimate grievances are worth talking about, worth healing from. I'm not gonna say worth bonding over, but like worth healing as a group. I think that's probably a better way of looking at it. Okay, thanks for watching. I hope you got a lot out of this. Like I said, links in the description, and yeah, let me know what you think in the comments. Bye. Thanks for watching, I hope you got a lot out of this. Like I said, links in the description and yeah, let me know what you think in the comments. Bye.", "chunks": [{"timestamp": [0.0, 5.12], "text": " Hello everybody, David Shapiro here with a video. This one's going to be a little bit long."}, {"timestamp": [6.16, 13.84], "text": " This is an 18-month retrospective. So for some background, I do to several things that happened"}, {"timestamp": [13.84, 20.4], "text": " in my life all at once. About 18 months ago, I came to the crashing realization that I am"}, {"timestamp": [21.2, 25.32], "text": " neurodiverse after having been in denial for a long time."}, {"timestamp": [25.32, 29.2], "text": " I'll unpack a lot of the different aspects and stuff."}, {"timestamp": [29.2, 32.2], "text": " But basically the point of this video is"}, {"timestamp": [32.2, 34.12], "text": " lessons I've learned the hard way"}, {"timestamp": [34.12, 37.04], "text": " and I've got them all packaged up and codified"}, {"timestamp": [37.04, 39.46], "text": " in easily digestible slides."}, {"timestamp": [39.46, 42.52], "text": " And oh, by the way, you can download this slide deck"}, {"timestamp": [42.52, 43.96], "text": " if you want to use it."}, {"timestamp": [43.96, 46.68], "text": " Link is in the description."}, {"timestamp": [46.68, 50.68], "text": " Please use it for your own reference, watch the video multiple times, whatever you need"}, {"timestamp": [50.68, 52.6], "text": " to do, watch it on 2x speed."}, {"timestamp": [52.6, 58.32], "text": " I know many of you watching may or may not be able to sit through a 45 minute video or"}, {"timestamp": [58.32, 61.76], "text": " however long it ends up being."}, {"timestamp": [61.76, 71.4], "text": " Also before we get started, I've got a couple of warnings first If you are a tippy and to clarify the word tippy is a pejorative for neurotypical person"}, {"timestamp": [71.4, 75.8], "text": " I use it just because well, it's short, but also, you know"}, {"timestamp": [76.44, 82.5], "text": " We've been called mean things and I think that you know using the word tippy is it's not particularly mean"}, {"timestamp": [83.12, 86.6], "text": " But if you are a tippy and you find this offensive,"}, {"timestamp": [86.6, 87.8], "text": " you don't have to watch it."}, {"timestamp": [87.8, 89.88], "text": " This video is not for you."}, {"timestamp": [89.88, 93.36], "text": " Unless you're curious and you wanna know what it's like,"}, {"timestamp": [93.36, 96.18], "text": " or if you are in doubt, if you're on the fence."}, {"timestamp": [96.18, 98.16], "text": " I have a lot of people reach out to me"}, {"timestamp": [98.16, 99.6], "text": " saying I thought that I was a tippy,"}, {"timestamp": [99.6, 101.64], "text": " but maybe I am actually spicy."}, {"timestamp": [101.64, 104.72], "text": " Speaking of, if you hear me use the word neuro-spicy,"}, {"timestamp": [104.72, 108.24], "text": " I use neuro-spicy instead of neurodivergent because it is not normative."}, {"timestamp": [108.24, 113.88], "text": " I honestly personally believe that like up to 80% of people are on the spectrum or on some kind of"}, {"timestamp": [114.4, 121.42], "text": " neurodiversity spectrum, and so the myth of neurotypical people is, well, a myth. I don't think anyone is actually neurotypical."}, {"timestamp": [121.42, 123.52], "text": " I think that we just have a lot of"}, {"timestamp": [124.56, 127.0], "text": " cultural and inherited trauma,"}, {"timestamp": [127.0, 130.5], "text": " largely from Victorian England and other places."}, {"timestamp": [130.5, 136.0], "text": " But basically, we all are forced to pretend like we are members of the British aristocracy,"}, {"timestamp": [136.0, 139.0], "text": " and that's a whole other can of worms."}, {"timestamp": [139.0, 141.0], "text": " Anyways, I have a right to be angry."}, {"timestamp": [141.0, 146.56], "text": " If that makes you uncomfortable, tough, stop watching the video."}, {"timestamp": [146.56, 149.72], "text": " Hateful comments will be reported, not just removed."}, {"timestamp": [149.72, 153.0], "text": " If you are spicy or you suspect you're spicy,"}, {"timestamp": [153.0, 154.56], "text": " this video may also be difficult"}, {"timestamp": [154.56, 156.6], "text": " because it may challenge your worldview"}, {"timestamp": [156.6, 158.38], "text": " or notions that you have about yourself."}, {"timestamp": [158.38, 160.76], "text": " So let's dive right in."}, {"timestamp": [160.76, 163.3], "text": " Like I said, this is an 18-month retrospective."}, {"timestamp": [163.3, 166.76], "text": " One last disclaimer, a medical disclaimer."}, {"timestamp": [166.76, 171.96], "text": " As you see on the screen, always seek medical advice and education from licensed professionals."}, {"timestamp": [171.96, 176.64], "text": " I am not a licensed professional of any means, measure, or whatever."}, {"timestamp": [176.64, 181.36], "text": " Basically, I am sharing my personal opinions and personal experience."}, {"timestamp": [181.36, 184.12], "text": " As such, this information is provided as is."}, {"timestamp": [184.12, 188.0], "text": " All right, let's get into it. So, one of the first and"}, {"timestamp": [188.0, 192.0], "text": " most important things that I have found about navigating"}, {"timestamp": [192.0, 196.0], "text": " the world as a neuro-spicy person is that most people"}, {"timestamp": [196.0, 200.0], "text": " abide by what I call emotional primacy."}, {"timestamp": [200.0, 204.0], "text": " And so basically, emotional primacy is the idea that"}, {"timestamp": [204.0, 208.0], "text": " most people put their emotions first and foremost, and sometimes only their emotions."}, {"timestamp": [208.0, 212.0], "text": " As one commenter said, it's almost as if"}, {"timestamp": [212.0, 216.0], "text": " tippies are on emotional autopilot. And I thought that that was a really good way"}, {"timestamp": [216.0, 220.0], "text": " of characterizing it, is that if you grow up"}, {"timestamp": [220.0, 224.0], "text": " as a neurotypical person who is treated fairly"}, {"timestamp": [224.0, 229.5], "text": " and has mainstream reactions, you can trust your emotions"}, {"timestamp": [229.8, 233.36], "text": " and you can operate entirely on emotional instinct"}, {"timestamp": [233.36, 237.76], "text": " and other people will understand that and go along with it."}, {"timestamp": [237.76, 241.36], "text": " But if you have not been treated fairly,"}, {"timestamp": [241.36, 244.76], "text": " or if your reactions and needs are not accepted,"}, {"timestamp": [244.76, 246.8], "text": " then you learn to suppress"}, {"timestamp": [246.8, 247.8], "text": " your emotions."}, {"timestamp": [247.8, 250.72], "text": " And we'll talk about that a little bit more in an upcoming slide."}, {"timestamp": [250.72, 254.44], "text": " But basically, you need to know that many people, I don't know if it's most people,"}, {"timestamp": [254.44, 258.96], "text": " but many people, maybe about 50%, give or take, I don't have any numbers on this, but"}, {"timestamp": [258.96, 266.32], "text": " many people, if not most people, operate on this principle of emotional primacy, which means that if they are not"}, {"timestamp": [266.32, 271.48], "text": " in an emotionally receptive state, they will not engage with you properly or they will"}, {"timestamp": [271.48, 275.96], "text": " not engage at all or they might be hostile."}, {"timestamp": [275.96, 280.52], "text": " There's also the concept of emotional salience, which means that if something doesn't resonate"}, {"timestamp": [280.52, 291.28], "text": " with someone's emotions, they usually either don't accept it or ignore it entirely, which is bewildering as hell to me as an autistic, neuro-spicy systems thinker. Basically,"}, {"timestamp": [291.28, 296.24], "text": " if someone does not understand something on an emotional level, it doesn't exist to them."}, {"timestamp": [297.36, 302.48], "text": " And so, therefore, if you want to engage with people, particularly tippies, you have to first"}, {"timestamp": [302.48, 305.0], "text": " and foremost and always cater to their emotions"}, {"timestamp": [305.0, 309.0], "text": " and understand that they are driven entirely by emotions."}, {"timestamp": [309.0, 313.0], "text": " And this is also kind of flies in the face of a trend"}, {"timestamp": [313.0, 318.0], "text": " lately where there's this like, this belief"}, {"timestamp": [318.0, 324.0], "text": " in society that like, oh, you should be rational and logical and men are rational and logical."}, {"timestamp": [324.0, 326.32], "text": " But the truth is, is that most people"}, {"timestamp": [326.32, 328.76], "text": " are 100% emotional beings."}, {"timestamp": [328.76, 330.92], "text": " And I'm glad to see this more and more."}, {"timestamp": [330.92, 333.0], "text": " I read in a book recently,"}, {"timestamp": [333.0, 334.12], "text": " I don't remember which book it was,"}, {"timestamp": [334.12, 337.16], "text": " but it was like, oh, it was actually Launch"}, {"timestamp": [337.16, 339.52], "text": " by Jeff, what's his name?"}, {"timestamp": [339.52, 342.4], "text": " But he's talking about how this is a marketing guy,"}, {"timestamp": [342.4, 346.92], "text": " and he's like, yeah, humans are are entirely emotional and then we just paper over"}, {"timestamp": [348.16, 349.92], "text": " our decisions"}, {"timestamp": [349.92, 355.92], "text": " Post-facto with a veneer of logic and I had a someone in my writing group say basically the same thing"}, {"timestamp": [355.92, 361.2], "text": " Maybe that's where they heard it from anyways, so remember that people are at their core"}, {"timestamp": [361.72, 366.0], "text": " Entirely emotional and if they believe that they're logical or rational, they're actually operating"}, {"timestamp": [366.0, 368.4], "text": " at an emotional self-awareness deficit."}, {"timestamp": [368.4, 371.12], "text": " Now, I'm not saying that neurotypicals,"}, {"timestamp": [371.12, 374.92], "text": " or that neurospicy people like myself, are not emotional,"}, {"timestamp": [374.92, 378.48], "text": " but what I am saying is that our relationship"}, {"timestamp": [378.48, 379.48], "text": " to our emotions is different,"}, {"timestamp": [379.48, 381.52], "text": " and like I said, we'll unpack that."}, {"timestamp": [381.52, 383.16], "text": " Now, another thing that you need to know"}, {"timestamp": [383.16, 385.76], "text": " about navigating the neurotypical world or"}, {"timestamp": [385.76, 390.72], "text": " the tippies is that they have a fundamentally different relationship to the truth. And so"}, {"timestamp": [391.44, 398.8], "text": " the truth to tippies is entirely emotional, based on social and emotional context. And so what I"}, {"timestamp": [398.8, 405.0], "text": " mean by that is that truth to them is defined by their social group."}, {"timestamp": [405.1, 407.58], "text": " And so their relationship to facts, information,"}, {"timestamp": [407.58, 411.78], "text": " and truth is almost entirely dependent upon"}, {"timestamp": [411.78, 414.5], "text": " the prevailing beliefs of their epistemic tribe"}, {"timestamp": [414.5, 416.44], "text": " or their group."}, {"timestamp": [416.44, 418.82], "text": " And so this is really confusing to us"}, {"timestamp": [418.82, 422.02], "text": " because especially until I learned"}, {"timestamp": [422.02, 425.28], "text": " that that's how tippies work."}, {"timestamp": [428.24, 431.12], "text": " I was like, why are so many people just utterly hostile to the truth? And that and it's explained"}, {"timestamp": [431.12, 433.68], "text": " very simply by the difference because us"}, {"timestamp": [433.68, 436.24], "text": " narrow spicy people, we place less."}, {"timestamp": [437.6, 441.12], "text": " Less importance on solidarity and conformity."}, {"timestamp": [441.12, 443.6], "text": " And when you understand that it's just it's literally"}, {"timestamp": [443.6, 450.96], "text": " just you change the order of priority from, you know, tribe first to intellectual rigor first, we still have our"}, {"timestamp": [450.96, 456.08], "text": " epistemic tribes. Again, I'm not saying that like we are unique and we are beings of pure Vulcan"}, {"timestamp": [456.08, 460.96], "text": " logic. No, I'm not saying that. I'm just saying that we have a different order of preference."}, {"timestamp": [460.96, 467.92], "text": " So for instance, we can still be susceptible to groupthink and echo chambers and epistemic tribes"}, {"timestamp": [468.16, 473.56], "text": " But at the same time part of our tribal bias is towards intellectual rigor"}, {"timestamp": [473.96, 479.08], "text": " And unpacking things rather than conformity and solidarity. So again"}, {"timestamp": [479.88, 484.72], "text": " When you don't know this it can look like wow, those people are demented. They're living in another world"}, {"timestamp": [484.8, 485.0], "text": " but when you understand that tippies just part of their worldview is When you don't know this, it can look like, wow, those people are demented, they're living in another world."}, {"timestamp": [485.0, 488.84], "text": " But when you understand that TIPI's just part of their worldview is"}, {"timestamp": [488.84, 492.4], "text": " group solidarity and social conformity,"}, {"timestamp": [492.4, 494.6], "text": " it makes sense, because it's like to them,"}, {"timestamp": [494.6, 497.0], "text": " truth is relative because"}, {"timestamp": [497.0, 499.2], "text": " their social group is more important to them"}, {"timestamp": [499.2, 502.6], "text": " than intellectual rigor, whereas for us it is reversed."}, {"timestamp": [502.6, 504.4], "text": " Again, not saying that we're immune"}, {"timestamp": [504.4, 505.28], "text": " to groupthink and that sort of stuff, just that us it is reversed. Again, not saying that we're immune to groupthink and that"}, {"timestamp": [505.28, 511.2], "text": " sort of stuff, just that the priorities are shifted. Neurotypical privilege, this is something"}, {"timestamp": [511.2, 518.08], "text": " that takes a little while to understand and unpack, but basically one of the primary things"}, {"timestamp": [518.08, 526.42], "text": " that I have come to view as one of the most important aspects to understand, is that the greatest neurotypical privilege"}, {"timestamp": [526.42, 531.42], "text": " is that the status quo, the group that has the most power,"}, {"timestamp": [531.7, 533.24], "text": " they're the ones that get to define"}, {"timestamp": [533.24, 534.88], "text": " what is quote unquote normal"}, {"timestamp": [534.88, 537.36], "text": " and what is quote unquote healthy."}, {"timestamp": [537.36, 539.32], "text": " And so because of that,"}, {"timestamp": [539.32, 541.34], "text": " this leads to a sense of entitlement"}, {"timestamp": [541.34, 543.74], "text": " that it's like, oh, well, I'm normal and healthy"}, {"timestamp": [543.74, 545.36], "text": " and you are not."}, {"timestamp": [545.36, 552.56], "text": " And this often results in all kinds of things such as abusive behaviors, manipulative behaviors,"}, {"timestamp": [552.56, 555.28], "text": " different kinds of harms and being judgmental."}, {"timestamp": [555.28, 562.08], "text": " And what's really interesting is because this is couched under the understanding of social"}, {"timestamp": [562.08, 565.0], "text": " norms, all human brains have this thing"}, {"timestamp": [565.48, 568.6], "text": " where if there is a norm violation,"}, {"timestamp": [568.6, 570.74], "text": " the person who has violated the norm,"}, {"timestamp": [570.74, 574.58], "text": " you are righteously justified to hurt them."}, {"timestamp": [574.58, 577.5], "text": " And it's actually neurologically proven"}, {"timestamp": [577.5, 579.84], "text": " that punishing a norm violation"}, {"timestamp": [579.84, 582.02], "text": " is very biochemically rewarding."}, {"timestamp": [582.02, 584.38], "text": " It is as rewarding as drugs."}, {"timestamp": [584.38, 588.0], "text": " And so this is why you end up with people on the internet that basically"}, {"timestamp": [588.0, 592.0], "text": " make a career out of being a social justice warrior because they get a"}, {"timestamp": [592.0, 596.0], "text": " dopamine hit every time they stick it to someone else. And this is"}, {"timestamp": [596.0, 600.0], "text": " not a liberal or conservative thing, a left or right thing,"}, {"timestamp": [600.0, 604.0], "text": " or woke versus non-woke. Literally everyone"}, {"timestamp": [604.0, 605.0], "text": " does this."}, {"timestamp": [605.0, 607.5], "text": " It's just there's different tests that they do."}, {"timestamp": [607.5, 610.2], "text": " So there's purity tests on both sides."}, {"timestamp": [610.2, 611.5], "text": " There's all kinds of things,"}, {"timestamp": [611.5, 615.1], "text": " but in the context of neurotypical privilege"}, {"timestamp": [615.1, 618.2], "text": " or tippy privilege versus neuro spicy privilege,"}, {"timestamp": [618.2, 622.2], "text": " it's really interesting because sometimes the in my observation"}, {"timestamp": [622.2, 626.32], "text": " people who are otherwise well-respected members of society"}, {"timestamp": [626.32, 634.92], "text": " or groups, they can become the most vicious, backstabbing, just like insane people when"}, {"timestamp": [634.92, 636.76], "text": " they are engaging with NeuroSpicy people."}, {"timestamp": [636.76, 638.16], "text": " They basically become sociopaths."}, {"timestamp": [638.16, 641.38], "text": " I still don't fully understand this change."}, {"timestamp": [641.38, 645.04], "text": " Maybe it's that, like maybe they it was a latent"}, {"timestamp": [646.88, 650.92], "text": " like psychopathy All along and then once they have once they have an outlet"}, {"timestamp": [650.92, 656.84], "text": " It's like oh I can become I can let all of my abuse out on that person and I'll talk more about predatory"}, {"timestamp": [657.52, 662.04], "text": " Reactions and a little bit and I'm not just saying again. I need to be"}, {"timestamp": [663.04, 665.7], "text": " Cautious I'm not saying if someone is a tippy,"}, {"timestamp": [665.7, 667.64], "text": " they all have latent psychopathy."}, {"timestamp": [667.64, 671.46], "text": " But what I am saying is that certainly when someone,"}, {"timestamp": [671.46, 673.54], "text": " when some people realize that they are dealing"}, {"timestamp": [673.54, 675.44], "text": " with someone who is neuro-spicy,"}, {"timestamp": [675.44, 679.0], "text": " they can become really, really, really mean."}, {"timestamp": [680.1, 682.62], "text": " Now, so this ties back to the first slide,"}, {"timestamp": [682.62, 686.24], "text": " and this is a concept called forced self-neglect."}, {"timestamp": [686.24, 690.16], "text": " So forced self-neglect, that's a mouthful, sorry."}, {"timestamp": [690.16, 696.52], "text": " Basically when you are forced to move through a world where your needs are not recognized,"}, {"timestamp": [696.52, 702.16], "text": " acknowledged, or catered to, or in fact you are punished, you are actively punished and"}, {"timestamp": [702.16, 707.1], "text": " harmed for having those needs, you learn to disconnect from those needs."}, {"timestamp": [707.1, 711.9], "text": " And so this is based on systematic deprivation."}, {"timestamp": [711.9, 713.06], "text": " So if you have special needs,"}, {"timestamp": [713.06, 715.62], "text": " whether it's dietary needs or social needs or whatever,"}, {"timestamp": [715.62, 717.58], "text": " you learn to suppress those needs."}, {"timestamp": [717.58, 719.3], "text": " And I'll have, there's another slide"}, {"timestamp": [719.3, 720.66], "text": " near the end of this deck"}, {"timestamp": [720.66, 723.02], "text": " talking about unsuppressing those needs."}, {"timestamp": [723.02, 726.74], "text": " And so over time, you adapt to this suppression"}, {"timestamp": [726.74, 730.56], "text": " and then it just goes away."}, {"timestamp": [730.56, 732.18], "text": " Well, it doesn't go away."}, {"timestamp": [732.18, 734.84], "text": " You learn to ignore it basically, but it's there."}, {"timestamp": [734.84, 739.84], "text": " And so this forced self-neglect is a really big component"}, {"timestamp": [739.92, 743.6], "text": " of you need to understand this as part of healing"}, {"timestamp": [743.6, 746.84], "text": " in order to reconnect with your true self,"}, {"timestamp": [746.84, 749.54], "text": " which again, I have many slides unpacking all of these."}, {"timestamp": [749.54, 753.54], "text": " So if you're afraid that I'm about to move on too quickly,"}, {"timestamp": [753.54, 755.7], "text": " don't worry, we will come back to some of these concepts"}, {"timestamp": [755.7, 758.24], "text": " and look at it from different perspectives."}, {"timestamp": [758.24, 761.74], "text": " Now this one is probably one of my most controversial"}, {"timestamp": [761.74, 764.52], "text": " observations, I'm not gonna say opinion,"}, {"timestamp": [764.52, 765.88], "text": " observation, whatever"}, {"timestamp": [765.88, 766.96], "text": " so"}, {"timestamp": [766.96, 770.58], "text": " When you look at the world through a neurotypical lens"}, {"timestamp": [771.34, 778.92], "text": " You often will see people with ADHD and ASD and HSP and giftedness being pathologized or being"}, {"timestamp": [779.08, 783.54], "text": " Characterized as having deficits. We might have attention deficits. We might have"}, {"timestamp": [784.88, 788.82], "text": " deficits. We might have attention deficits. We might have executive function deficits. We might have sensory deficits or social whatever deficits"}, {"timestamp": [788.82, 793.08], "text": " deficits deficits. However, if you flip the script and you look at the world"}, {"timestamp": [793.08, 799.34], "text": " from a neuro spicy lens and you say well what if we're the normal ones then the"}, {"timestamp": [799.34, 807.76], "text": " world looks very different. So I am all four of these ADHD, ASD, HSP, and gifted. So here's how the world looks to me."}, {"timestamp": [808.96, 815.04], "text": " So first, from my ADHD perspective, most people look really profoundly slow."}, {"timestamp": [816.8, 827.18], "text": " Nobody works as fast as I do, and I mean nobody. And like I tell my wife and others like in three hours, I do what a tippy does in a week."}, {"timestamp": [827.18, 831.26], "text": " And I don't understand why like people are that slow,"}, {"timestamp": [831.26, 833.54], "text": " but they are, and that's just how it is."}, {"timestamp": [833.54, 835.14], "text": " And it's like, okay, well,"}, {"timestamp": [835.14, 837.38], "text": " the rest of the world is moving at a snail's pace."}, {"timestamp": [837.38, 838.74], "text": " I don't understand that,"}, {"timestamp": [838.74, 841.68], "text": " but because I don't pathologize my ADHD,"}, {"timestamp": [841.68, 844.22], "text": " it's like, oh, actually I have the ability to hyperfocus"}, {"timestamp": [844.22, 851.0], "text": " when things move at my pace. And I actually have a huge appetite for stimulation and productivity."}, {"timestamp": [851.0, 861.0], "text": " But if I am forced to move at a tippy pace, I get bored and I walk away, so I have, quote, attention deficits. That's absolute horseshit."}, {"timestamp": [861.0, 873.46], "text": " I don't have any problem with attention. Other people are just too damn slow. As a systemizing autistic person, moving on to point two, as an autistic systemizing"}, {"timestamp": [873.46, 879.82], "text": " person, the rest of the world seems mostly completely oblivious to the way things work."}, {"timestamp": [879.82, 891.18], "text": " It's very strange to me that trying to engage with people who do not have systems thinking or or cause-and-effect thinking and that sort of stuff and so"}, {"timestamp": [891.18, 897.54], "text": " as an example I had my autistic friend text me like why is it so hard to talk"}, {"timestamp": [897.54, 901.3], "text": " to these people in this business about the way things work and you know like"}, {"timestamp": [901.3, 904.7], "text": " this spreadsheet is over here and this protocol is here and it's all super"}, {"timestamp": [904.7, 906.58], "text": " inefficient and broken and I'm like yeah we is over here and this protocol is here and it's all super inefficient and broken and I'm like"}, {"timestamp": [907.06, 913.38], "text": " Yeah, we're systems thinkers and most people aren't and we often wonder how the world functions"}, {"timestamp": [913.38, 918.94], "text": " But the truth is the world often doesn't function and it's partly because most humans are not systems thinkers"}, {"timestamp": [919.62, 923.44], "text": " And so yeah, the world is incredibly inefficient"}, {"timestamp": [923.44, 928.2], "text": " It's incredibly broken and there are completely back asswords asinine systems in place"}, {"timestamp": [928.48, 930.76], "text": " because most people are not systems thinkers."}, {"timestamp": [930.76, 935.0], "text": " And this is the thing where it's like trying to teach a pigeon to play chess."}, {"timestamp": [935.24, 938.8], "text": " If someone like systems thinking is honestly beyond"}, {"timestamp": [939.0, 941.32], "text": " the epistemic horizon of most people."}, {"timestamp": [941.56, 948.6], "text": " And so you talk about like, look, I observed these three things and it means this and people will look at you like you're insane like you have three heads and it's"}, {"timestamp": [948.6, 950.6], "text": " Like you can't possibly know that"}, {"timestamp": [950.6, 955.64], "text": " Because it is outside of the realm of what they think is actually possible for a human brain to do"}, {"timestamp": [955.64, 958.96], "text": " And so when I say like look at these set of facts"}, {"timestamp": [959.0, 963.88], "text": " Why are you not coming to the same conclusion and then a year or two later or a couple months later?"}, {"timestamp": [963.88, 967.28], "text": " I'm proven right and I've literally had people say you couldn't"}, {"timestamp": [967.28, 970.46], "text": " possibly have known that you just guessed and you happen to be right it's"}, {"timestamp": [970.46, 976.5], "text": " like no I actually knew and I this is a pattern I am right way more often than I"}, {"timestamp": [976.5, 982.48], "text": " am wrong particularly in the long run from an HSP perspective most people are"}, {"timestamp": [982.48, 986.92], "text": " barely sentient and what I mean by is, and I know this is gonna be"}, {"timestamp": [986.92, 991.34], "text": " a super offensive opinion, but the amount of self-awareness"}, {"timestamp": [991.34, 993.72], "text": " and environmental awareness and emotional awareness"}, {"timestamp": [993.72, 997.76], "text": " and sensory awareness that people have compared to HSPs,"}, {"timestamp": [997.76, 999.52], "text": " it's like they're not even conscious"}, {"timestamp": [999.52, 1001.4], "text": " or it's like they're barely awake."}, {"timestamp": [1001.4, 1007.08], "text": " And so, you know, people are right now all arguing about like whether or"}, {"timestamp": [1007.08, 1011.24], "text": " not AI is conscious or sentient. And I'm like, most humans barely qualify as conscious or"}, {"timestamp": [1011.24, 1015.68], "text": " sentient as far as I'm concerned. Now, I'm not saying like they're not even animals and"}, {"timestamp": [1015.68, 1021.64], "text": " they're just robots, they're automatons. What I'm saying is that self-awareness and all"}, {"timestamp": [1021.64, 1028.0], "text": " the aspects that go into consciousness and sentience, It is not a binary, it is not true or false. It is a"}, {"timestamp": [1028.0, 1032.0], "text": " spectrum, it is a gradient. And HSPs are much further"}, {"timestamp": [1032.0, 1036.0], "text": " along that gradient than many other people. And then as a gifted person"}, {"timestamp": [1036.0, 1040.0], "text": " who is at least 3 standard deviations above average"}, {"timestamp": [1040.0, 1044.0], "text": " I will say that on the extreme right tail of the bell curve, most"}, {"timestamp": [1044.0, 1045.84], "text": " of the world, from my perspective,"}, {"timestamp": [1045.84, 1051.6], "text": " looks like they're operating with intellectual disabilities. And like, I know that that's super"}, {"timestamp": [1051.6, 1055.92], "text": " offensive to say, and it's like, well, Dave, you're above average. It's not right for you to"}, {"timestamp": [1055.92, 1062.48], "text": " look at the rest of us as cognitively challenged. But I am tired of being pathologized for being"}, {"timestamp": [1062.48, 1069.12], "text": " smart. So, you know, like, if you can't, what I tell people is if you can't take it, don't dish it out."}, {"timestamp": [1069.12, 1075.2], "text": " So, like, if you don't want to be pathologized for being, like, average intelligence,"}, {"timestamp": [1075.2, 1077.92], "text": " then don't pathologize people for being smarter than you."}, {"timestamp": [1077.92, 1081.68], "text": " I've had people just get incredibly, insanely angry"}, {"timestamp": [1081.68, 1085.68], "text": " when I just make the observation some people are smarter than others. Like they're"}, {"timestamp": [1085.68, 1088.88], "text": " like, oh, that's elitist and I'm like it's a fact"}, {"timestamp": [1088.88, 1090.96], "text": " right like you don't get angry when someone's"}, {"timestamp": [1090.96, 1093.44], "text": " taller than you. It's a fact that is a measurable"}, {"timestamp": [1093.44, 1095.76], "text": " fact that someone is taller than you or shorter"}, {"timestamp": [1095.76, 1099.2], "text": " than you. It is also likewise a fact that some"}, {"timestamp": [1099.2, 1102.32], "text": " people are smarter than you, but because we"}, {"timestamp": [1102.32, 1106.8], "text": " particularly in America and the West, we have this idea that equality"}, {"timestamp": [1106.8, 1113.6], "text": " before the law means that all people are always equal in all measures and that it's taboo to even"}, {"timestamp": [1113.6, 1119.84], "text": " say anything to the contrary. If you read the way that people spoke 100 years ago, we were very,"}, {"timestamp": [1119.84, 1123.76], "text": " very comfortable with saying, oh yeah, that person's kind of a dullard, but that's okay,"}, {"timestamp": [1123.76, 1128.4], "text": " they're a nice guy. Or that person really smart. Like we should we should do"}, {"timestamp": [1128.4, 1134.32], "text": " that, but for whatever reason, culturally we have, I guess, decided that we should not"}, {"timestamp": [1134.32, 1139.12], "text": " we should not assess or appraise people's intelligence. I don't know why, because that's"}, {"timestamp": [1139.12, 1175.0], "text": " harmed society. Okay, so moving on pathologizing differences. So what basically what this is is when you look at the world through a neurotypical lens, it is very easy to and one of the things that they do is pathologize our needs. They say, well, you have these weird sensory needs. So we're going to pathologize that and say that it's actually a disorder or you have, you know, these, these interesting social dynamics or these communication skills. And so we're going to, we're going to call those deficits or you have,"}, {"timestamp": [1175.0, 1185.76], "text": " you have meltdowns after years and years of abuse. So we're going to actually characterize that as borderline personality disorder where in fact actually having meltdowns when your sensory"}, {"timestamp": [1185.76, 1190.64], "text": " needs and emotional needs are not met for literally years on end is a healthy and natural response."}, {"timestamp": [1191.92, 1196.24], "text": " And so, and then also some of the things that I was just talking about, like"}, {"timestamp": [1196.24, 1202.08], "text": " the the looking at the world through my lens is like I've been called a narcissist. It's like"}, {"timestamp": [1202.08, 1208.18], "text": " actually I'm the victim of narcissists. But again, by pathologizing things"}, {"timestamp": [1208.18, 1212.06], "text": " that are objectively measurable and healthy and normal,"}, {"timestamp": [1212.06, 1216.28], "text": " this is how neurotypical society and mainstream society"}, {"timestamp": [1216.28, 1219.58], "text": " continues to other us or ostracize or marginalize"}, {"timestamp": [1219.58, 1220.94], "text": " people like us as they wanna say,"}, {"timestamp": [1220.94, 1223.28], "text": " well, there's more of us than there are of you,"}, {"timestamp": [1223.28, 1228.92], "text": " so we are going to define what is good in the center here and you are an eccentric and"}, {"timestamp": [1228.92, 1232.24], "text": " therefore eccentric eccentric is bad."}, {"timestamp": [1232.24, 1238.16], "text": " And now that you are being othered and you are eccentric, it is now okay to exclude you"}, {"timestamp": [1238.16, 1241.68], "text": " to bully you, harm you and exploit you."}, {"timestamp": [1241.68, 1245.68], "text": " Now again, it might sound like, oh oh this is a vicious world. In some"}, {"timestamp": [1245.68, 1249.64], "text": " cases this is conscious and deliberate but in most cases it is completely just"}, {"timestamp": [1249.64, 1254.8], "text": " unconscious and it is a social paradigm. It is just a trend that is embedded in"}, {"timestamp": [1254.8, 1261.52], "text": " society that we don't really talk about too much. So one of the key lessons that"}, {"timestamp": [1261.52, 1273.72], "text": " I learned is don't scare the tippies. So this is a masking strategy where basically you you have to hide your true abilities because"}, {"timestamp": [1273.72, 1289.04], "text": " when tippies see what unbridled gifted giftedness is capable of when tippies like experience the true like level of empathy and perceptiveness of HSP's."}, {"timestamp": [1289.04, 1292.68], "text": " It makes them very, very, very deeply uncomfortable."}, {"timestamp": [1292.68, 1295.56], "text": " And so what I'm here's an example of what I mean."}, {"timestamp": [1295.56, 1301.72], "text": " HSP's will often like be able to like jump into a meeting or like come into a room and"}, {"timestamp": [1301.72, 1327.54], "text": " immediately get a very deep read on the room and understand the emotional and what's going on in their"}, {"timestamp": [1327.54, 1332.82], "text": " head and say it to them in a way that they're not prepared to like receive."}, {"timestamp": [1332.82, 1336.8], "text": " Like again, it's outside of their their epistemic horizon, their cognitive"}, {"timestamp": [1336.8, 1340.74], "text": " horizon. They don't believe that it is possible for someone to be that"}, {"timestamp": [1340.74, 1346.0], "text": " perceptive and so that it makes them very uncomfortable to be perceived like that."}, {"timestamp": [1346.0, 1356.0], "text": " This is doubly true for disordered individuals because people like narcissists and other pathological liars,"}, {"timestamp": [1356.0, 1358.0], "text": " the worst thing to them is to be seen."}, {"timestamp": [1358.0, 1367.0], "text": " And so if your perceptiveness as an HSP is actually an active threat to many disordered people"}, {"timestamp": [1367.0, 1372.0], "text": " like psychopaths, like sociopaths, like narcissists, like liars"}, {"timestamp": [1372.0, 1377.0], "text": " because if you can detect their BS, you are an active threat to them."}, {"timestamp": [1377.0, 1382.0], "text": " And so, don't scare the tippies means we are often encouraged or coerced"}, {"timestamp": [1382.0, 1386.06], "text": " to hide our perceptiveness, to hide our intellectual prowess to hide our"}, {"timestamp": [1386.9, 1388.18], "text": " everything"}, {"timestamp": [1388.18, 1390.18], "text": " And it can result in"}, {"timestamp": [1390.7, 1393.78], "text": " Alienation such as being ostracized from a group or kicked out"}, {"timestamp": [1394.26, 1399.4], "text": " In my case it has resulted in sabotage both career sabotage and social sabotage"}, {"timestamp": [1400.82, 1405.06], "text": " You know like one thing that I can do as a highly gifted person is I can pick up"}, {"timestamp": [1405.06, 1409.32], "text": " You know a handful of books on a topic and become an expert in it. You know the meme of"}, {"timestamp": [1410.56, 1415.88], "text": " Tony Stark like where he was talking about like quantum physics, and they're like when did you become an expert on this?"}, {"timestamp": [1415.88, 1417.28], "text": " And he's like last night"}, {"timestamp": [1417.28, 1419.84], "text": " I did the reading like I can't read quite that fast"}, {"timestamp": [1419.84, 1423.24], "text": " But like seriously like give me a week and like a stack of books"}, {"timestamp": [1423.24, 1425.48], "text": " And I'll read something and I'll become an expert on it and"}, {"timestamp": [1425.58, 1431.32], "text": " That is for whatever reason offensive to people. I've literally had people with PhDs"}, {"timestamp": [1431.88, 1435.92], "text": " Criticize me for learning by reading books. They're like Dave's weird"}, {"timestamp": [1435.92, 1441.0], "text": " he learns by reading books and I'm like you're a you're freaking like"}, {"timestamp": [1441.68, 1443.68], "text": " PhD like how did you get your PhD?"}, {"timestamp": [1444.54, 1447.86], "text": " anyways, so Don't scare the tippies."}, {"timestamp": [1449.6, 1452.08], "text": " Next up is socially endorsed gaslighting."}, {"timestamp": [1452.08, 1457.08], "text": " So this is the thing, this is kind of the net effect"}, {"timestamp": [1457.24, 1458.88], "text": " of many of the things that I'm talking about"}, {"timestamp": [1458.88, 1462.36], "text": " up to this point, which is basically"}, {"timestamp": [1462.36, 1464.68], "text": " when you view the world through a neurotypical lens"}, {"timestamp": [1464.68, 1470.72], "text": " with all the assumptions and expectations that this has it's like ah well as a"}, {"timestamp": [1470.72, 1475.2], "text": " neurotypical person with this set of experiences I believe that all people"}, {"timestamp": [1475.2, 1479.88], "text": " have this range of mental abilities this range of emotional abilities this range"}, {"timestamp": [1479.88, 1484.88], "text": " of needs I will characterize this need is healthy and this need is unhealthy"}, {"timestamp": [1484.88, 1485.88], "text": " everyone should be able to do X Y & Z and so then when you see someone who of needs, I will characterize this need as healthy and this need is unhealthy."}, {"timestamp": [1485.88, 1488.26], "text": " Everyone should be able to do X, Y, and Z."}, {"timestamp": [1488.26, 1492.6], "text": " And so then when you see someone who falls outside of that very narrowly defined Venn"}, {"timestamp": [1492.6, 1498.84], "text": " diagram, it's like, ah, that person is either making stuff up, they are wrong, they're attention"}, {"timestamp": [1498.84, 1501.48], "text": " seeking, and so on and so forth."}, {"timestamp": [1501.48, 1507.12], "text": " And so it's like, well, I don't have any schema to understand your needs and what you're saying and"}, {"timestamp": [1507.12, 1510.96], "text": " your experience so I'm just going to assume that you are"}, {"timestamp": [1510.96, 1514.56], "text": " wrong or that you are making it up and I'm going to tell you as such"}, {"timestamp": [1514.56, 1518.48], "text": " I'm going to say it's all just in your head"}, {"timestamp": [1518.48, 1523.84], "text": " yeah so this happens quite extensively with pretty much all authority figures"}, {"timestamp": [1523.84, 1525.2], "text": " whether it's doctors,"}, {"timestamp": [1525.2, 1529.28], "text": " teachers, parents who don't get it, although in many cases it's parents that are just in"}, {"timestamp": [1529.28, 1535.92], "text": " denial because got some news for you. Neurospiciness runs in families. There is a reason for that,"}, {"timestamp": [1535.92, 1543.68], "text": " but we'll get to some of the intergenerational stuff in a bit. But basically, every authority"}, {"timestamp": [1543.68, 1546.88], "text": " figure in your life might gaslight you because they don't understand"}, {"timestamp": [1546.88, 1547.72], "text": " what you need."}, {"timestamp": [1547.72, 1548.96], "text": " Like, they don't understand when it's like,"}, {"timestamp": [1548.96, 1551.78], "text": " I can't eat that food because it hurts me."}, {"timestamp": [1551.78, 1553.36], "text": " And like, that's something that I'm still working"}, {"timestamp": [1553.36, 1555.12], "text": " on repairing is my relationship to food."}, {"timestamp": [1555.12, 1556.3], "text": " I forgot to add a slide for that."}, {"timestamp": [1556.3, 1557.14], "text": " Anyways."}, {"timestamp": [1558.36, 1560.08], "text": " Yeah, so it's like, if we're picky eaters,"}, {"timestamp": [1560.08, 1562.18], "text": " it's because some food literally hurts us."}, {"timestamp": [1563.2, 1566.5], "text": " Or if we are, like, I wear oversized sweaters."}, {"timestamp": [1566.5, 1568.5], "text": " Why? Because they're comfortable and they're very,"}, {"timestamp": [1568.5, 1570.5], "text": " they're very soothing to me."}, {"timestamp": [1570.5, 1573.5], "text": " And, like, I manage to find one that looks good enough,"}, {"timestamp": [1573.5, 1576.5], "text": " but I know that I look, I look better"}, {"timestamp": [1576.5, 1578.5], "text": " if I wear tighter clothes,"}, {"timestamp": [1578.5, 1581.0], "text": " but oh my God, tight clothes make me want to die."}, {"timestamp": [1581.0, 1583.0], "text": " So, anyways,"}, {"timestamp": [1583.0, 1585.64], "text": " but now that I have a better schema for"}, {"timestamp": [1585.64, 1592.04], "text": " understanding that one, from a certain lens, I look weird or eccentric or"}, {"timestamp": [1592.04, 1596.36], "text": " disordered or whatever, but from a neuro-spicy lens it's like, oh well all"}, {"timestamp": [1596.36, 1599.88], "text": " these needs are just obvious and just do them."}, {"timestamp": [1599.88, 1607.54], "text": " Institutional gatekeeping. So this builds on the last idea. So the idea is that the institutions such as government,"}, {"timestamp": [1607.54, 1617.5], "text": " academic institutions, businesses, medical establishments, so all the big institutions that basically run our world,"}, {"timestamp": [1617.5, 1623.0], "text": " they either implicitly or explicitly have neurotypical gatekeeping."}, {"timestamp": [1623.0, 1625.8], "text": " So basically the tippies only let other tippies in"}, {"timestamp": [1625.8, 1627.4], "text": " to be decision makers."}, {"timestamp": [1627.4, 1629.84], "text": " And so what this does is it implicitly gives"}, {"timestamp": [1629.84, 1632.04], "text": " the tippy perspective more precedence"}, {"timestamp": [1632.04, 1633.4], "text": " over every other perspective."}, {"timestamp": [1633.4, 1636.0], "text": " It gives them control and it gives them the privilege"}, {"timestamp": [1636.0, 1638.0], "text": " to define what is normal."}, {"timestamp": [1638.0, 1642.84], "text": " And this creates persistent biases and misunderstandings."}, {"timestamp": [1642.84, 1647.72], "text": " So basically if only the tippies are allowed to decide what is medically normal and what"}, {"timestamp": [1647.72, 1653.78], "text": " is medically healthy, or what is accepted behavior in businesses, then their view is"}, {"timestamp": [1653.78, 1657.66], "text": " going to be the status quo by default."}, {"timestamp": [1657.66, 1660.76], "text": " It's a pretty simple idea, but it's worth saying."}, {"timestamp": [1660.76, 1663.4], "text": " Okay, so next up is learned helplessness."}, {"timestamp": [1663.4, 1667.48], "text": " So learned helplessness is that after literally years sometimes many decades of"}, {"timestamp": [1667.96, 1673.44], "text": " Not having any relief and not having any help and not finding any answers you often give up"}, {"timestamp": [1674.4, 1677.92], "text": " This is this is kind of where I was heading until I had like the big giant"}, {"timestamp": [1678.0, 1682.94], "text": " Breakthrough like 18 months ago, and I was like because I had done all kinds of stuff to try and understand what was going on"}, {"timestamp": [1682.94, 1688.5], "text": " I practiced Zen I learned personality theory, I took an IQ test."}, {"timestamp": [1688.5, 1693.4], "text": " And so like I knew that like, okay, like my IQ is like over 145."}, {"timestamp": [1693.4, 1698.2], "text": " But like I didn't know about the rest of neurodiversity because at the time"}, {"timestamp": [1698.2, 1701.2], "text": " it was like you were either profoundly autistic and"}, {"timestamp": [1701.2, 1704.8], "text": " you know, basically needed to be, you know, cared for"}, {"timestamp": [1704.8, 1705.5], "text": " or you were an"}, {"timestamp": [1705.5, 1710.32], "text": " aspie but even being aspie was not well-defined you know 12 years ago or"}, {"timestamp": [1710.32, 1715.52], "text": " whenever it was I was looking into this stuff so anyways you end up you know you"}, {"timestamp": [1715.52, 1718.96], "text": " you get bullied at work you get bullied at home you get bullied by your friends"}, {"timestamp": [1718.96, 1723.24], "text": " you lose opportunities and you just don't understand what's going on and so"}, {"timestamp": [1723.24, 1727.16], "text": " part of a reaction to this I I mean, lots of healthy reactions,"}, {"timestamp": [1727.6, 1731.16], "text": " you know, despair and hopelessness, um, belief that like,"}, {"timestamp": [1731.16, 1733.0], "text": " you kind of get frozen, you kind of get stuck."}, {"timestamp": [1733.8, 1736.88], "text": " So I call this like you're paralyzed or you're frozen. Um,"}, {"timestamp": [1736.92, 1739.52], "text": " and you end up with a fixed mindset, um,"}, {"timestamp": [1739.8, 1743.8], "text": " leads to depression and anxiety are the two most common reactions. Um,"}, {"timestamp": [1743.8, 1746.0], "text": " social withdrawal, uh, toxic relationships,"}, {"timestamp": [1746.0, 1749.0], "text": " even poverty, job loss, that kind of stuff."}, {"timestamp": [1749.0, 1752.0], "text": " And so, this is like,"}, {"timestamp": [1752.0, 1755.0], "text": " making the pivot from a frozen mindset or a fixed mindset"}, {"timestamp": [1755.0, 1758.0], "text": " to a growth mindset is really hard."}, {"timestamp": [1758.0, 1761.0], "text": " And it also takes a long time."}, {"timestamp": [1761.0, 1764.0], "text": " I started some of the healing journey before realizing I was autistic."}, {"timestamp": [1764.0, 1769.08], "text": " So I was already in a growth mindset after a failed very toxic relationship"}, {"timestamp": [1770.0, 1772.64], "text": " and so I had learned about relationship schemas, but"}, {"timestamp": [1773.8, 1779.46], "text": " learning about the learning about being neuro spicy changed everything like my"}, {"timestamp": [1779.68, 1783.92], "text": " interpretation of literally my entire life and my entire family and so"}, {"timestamp": [1783.0, 1786.0], "text": " of literally my entire life and my entire family. And so like, yeah, I guess just"}, {"timestamp": [1786.0, 1789.0], "text": " the point that I'm trying to drive home here is"}, {"timestamp": [1789.0, 1792.0], "text": " that coming to terms with something that is fundamental"}, {"timestamp": [1792.0, 1795.0], "text": " to you, it's not just something that happened to you"}, {"timestamp": [1795.0, 1798.0], "text": " like nature versus nurture. It is literally in my"}, {"timestamp": [1798.0, 1801.0], "text": " genetic nature to be the way that I am"}, {"timestamp": [1801.0, 1804.0], "text": " and learning what is nature versus"}, {"timestamp": [1804.0, 1807.04], "text": " nurture is really important. But also"}, {"timestamp": [1807.04, 1809.84], "text": " like I said a minute ago, understanding that a"}, {"timestamp": [1809.84, 1812.12], "text": " lot of the things that I have struggled with my"}, {"timestamp": [1812.12, 1814.6], "text": " family also struggled with and they never got"}, {"timestamp": [1814.6, 1816.96], "text": " relief. All the information that I'm benefiting"}, {"timestamp": [1816.96, 1820.2], "text": " from is brand new and so it's like, oh, well, my"}, {"timestamp": [1820.2, 1823.16], "text": " family wasn't the best, but I have much more"}, {"timestamp": [1823.16, 1828.0], "text": " empathy understanding that they struggled with all the same things that I struggle with,"}, {"timestamp": [1828.0, 1831.0], "text": " but they also never had answers."}, {"timestamp": [1831.0, 1834.0], "text": " So yeah, like, that really sucks."}, {"timestamp": [1834.0, 1838.5], "text": " Okay, so I alluded to this a little while ago, and this is being targeted."}, {"timestamp": [1838.5, 1844.0], "text": " So, obviously, like, this is not just, you know, tippies by and large."}, {"timestamp": [1844.0, 1847.12], "text": " I'm not saying that every tippy is is a latent predator"}, {"timestamp": [1847.12, 1851.52], "text": " But there are a lot of predators out there whether or not they're neurotypical or narrow spicy"}, {"timestamp": [1852.08, 1858.96], "text": " Whether they're narcissists sexual predators or the just plain greedy or sociopaths or psychopaths or whatever"}, {"timestamp": [1859.84, 1863.7], "text": " but one of the things that is almost universally true about"}, {"timestamp": [1864.28, 1868.5], "text": " about predators of all kinds is they look for vulnerable people."}, {"timestamp": [1868.5, 1874.9], "text": " And so because they look for vulnerable people, they look for people who are socially isolated, mentally ill,"}, {"timestamp": [1874.9, 1878.8], "text": " or have poor understanding of boundaries or any number of things."}, {"timestamp": [1878.8, 1885.0], "text": " And so because of that, we, NeuroSpicy people, are often targeted by predators."}, {"timestamp": [1885.9, 1889.42], "text": " And like I mentioned, predators come in all shapes and sizes."}, {"timestamp": [1889.42, 1892.76], "text": " There are emotional predators who want to get you"}, {"timestamp": [1892.76, 1895.3], "text": " in a relationship and they use things like love bombing"}, {"timestamp": [1895.3, 1897.76], "text": " to suck you in or hoovering or whatever."}, {"timestamp": [1897.76, 1900.66], "text": " There's predatory people in the business world"}, {"timestamp": [1900.66, 1902.98], "text": " who will look to exploit you and basically treat you"}, {"timestamp": [1902.98, 1907.44], "text": " as the goose that laid the golden egg and just like say"}, {"timestamp": [1907.44, 1910.48], "text": " give me like I've literally had people message me saying like"}, {"timestamp": [1910.48, 1914.32], "text": " sign this NDA. Let's talk about you know all the IP that you're"}, {"timestamp": [1914.32, 1919.68], "text": " generating and I'm like block. You know and it's it's a really"}, {"timestamp": [1919.68, 1922.96], "text": " easy test to do. It's like okay cool like I you know I"}, {"timestamp": [1922.96, 1927.96], "text": " appreciate that this is a business opportunity like let me talk about what I need and then they usually"}, {"timestamp": [1927.96, 1932.68], "text": " disappear or fly off the handle predators get really really angry if you"}, {"timestamp": [1932.68, 1937.2], "text": " call them out and so this is why I like basically one of the rules that I have"}, {"timestamp": [1937.2, 1941.4], "text": " is if I have to push back on someone at all I just block them because if it gets"}, {"timestamp": [1941.4, 1945.6], "text": " that far like it's like maybe maybe tippies don't experience this"}, {"timestamp": [1946.24, 1948.42], "text": " Because they're not targeted by predators as much"}, {"timestamp": [1949.0, 1954.36], "text": " But yeah, basically like if I get if I get even the slightest like red flag"}, {"timestamp": [1955.0, 1957.92], "text": " Or you know if something doesn't pass pass the sniff test"}, {"timestamp": [1957.92, 1962.12], "text": " It's just like I just block them and it served me well so far. I have managed to avoid"}, {"timestamp": [1964.36, 1966.8], "text": " Being targeted for any number of things for"}, {"timestamp": [1966.8, 1969.6], "text": " a while now."}, {"timestamp": [1969.6, 1975.04], "text": " So then another concept that I learned from another YouTuber is the ableist goblin. So"}, {"timestamp": [1975.04, 1981.44], "text": " the ableist goblin is a way of talking about internalized ableism, which is basically because"}, {"timestamp": [1981.44, 1985.0], "text": " of learned helplessness and neurotypical privilege"}, {"timestamp": [1985.88, 1989.08], "text": " and everything else that's going on in society,"}, {"timestamp": [1989.08, 1991.82], "text": " you might have internalized ableism."}, {"timestamp": [1991.82, 1995.48], "text": " You might have, particularly if you have"}, {"timestamp": [1995.48, 2000.16], "text": " invisible disabilities, as many aspects of NeuroSpicy"}, {"timestamp": [2000.16, 2003.2], "text": " are often invisible, this means that you have"}, {"timestamp": [2003.2, 2008.0], "text": " internalized measurements that are unrealistic or unhealthy"}, {"timestamp": [2008.0, 2012.0], "text": " or even, in my case, behaviors such as perfectionism"}, {"timestamp": [2012.0, 2016.0], "text": " and workaholism, that basically it's like, well, I should be able"}, {"timestamp": [2016.0, 2020.0], "text": " to do more and do better because other people are able to do more and do better."}, {"timestamp": [2020.0, 2024.0], "text": " And even though I have arrived at a point where I am infinitely more productive than neurotypical"}, {"timestamp": [2024.0, 2027.2], "text": " people, I still believe that I am less productive."}, {"timestamp": [2027.2, 2028.7], "text": " And I'm still working on that."}, {"timestamp": [2028.7, 2031.2], "text": " As I mentioned, I'm working on repairing my relationship to food."}, {"timestamp": [2031.2, 2034.2], "text": " I'm also working on repairing my relationship to work."}, {"timestamp": [2034.2, 2039.7], "text": " So, you might end up with ableist beliefs, unrealistic standards, perfectionism, workaholism."}, {"timestamp": [2039.7, 2042.2], "text": " But then also, you can have projection and judgment."}, {"timestamp": [2042.2, 2047.76], "text": " So, basically all of these things, every aspect of ableism can be directed internally"}, {"timestamp": [2047.76, 2050.88], "text": " at yourself or directed externally at other people."}, {"timestamp": [2050.88, 2053.04], "text": " And so one of the things that I've been working on"}, {"timestamp": [2053.04, 2054.88], "text": " as I learned to work with other people"}, {"timestamp": [2054.88, 2058.32], "text": " is not to project my perfectionism onto other people."}, {"timestamp": [2058.32, 2060.56], "text": " Like, yes, I could do a better job,"}, {"timestamp": [2060.56, 2063.64], "text": " but telling someone that isn't gonna help them."}, {"timestamp": [2063.64, 2066.08], "text": " And I actually have, I have a few mentors now and I"}, {"timestamp": [2066.84, 2070.88], "text": " Definitely recommend finding mentors whether they are also neuro spicy"}, {"timestamp": [2071.88, 2076.92], "text": " Well, I will say that fellow neuro spicy mentors are often the best not always"}, {"timestamp": [2077.72, 2079.32], "text": " but anyways"}, {"timestamp": [2079.32, 2084.28], "text": " And and like one of them said like yeah, like it's it's it's a basic thing"}, {"timestamp": [2084.28, 2086.74], "text": " Like if you want it done right, do it yourself."}, {"timestamp": [2086.94, 2089.78], "text": " But there's also such a thing as just accepting and tolerating"}, {"timestamp": [2089.78, 2093.18], "text": " good enough from everyone else, but also aiming for good enough"}, {"timestamp": [2093.18, 2096.38], "text": " for yourself is a way to heal that perfectionism."}, {"timestamp": [2096.98, 2099.88], "text": " And I'm able to talk about this because I'm mostly on the other side of it."}, {"timestamp": [2099.9, 2100.34], "text": " Mostly."}, {"timestamp": [2102.24, 2103.64], "text": " Marginalized self-hatred."}, {"timestamp": [2103.64, 2106.0], "text": " So I picked this graphic because the phenomenon is"}, {"timestamp": [2106.0, 2108.0], "text": " more familiar, particularly with"}, {"timestamp": [2108.0, 2110.0], "text": " hate crimes committed"}, {"timestamp": [2110.0, 2112.0], "text": " by LGBT against LGBT."}, {"timestamp": [2112.0, 2114.0], "text": " So every"}, {"timestamp": [2114.0, 2116.0], "text": " now and then you'll see in the news where there was"}, {"timestamp": [2116.0, 2118.0], "text": " a mass shooting at a gay club"}, {"timestamp": [2118.0, 2120.0], "text": " and the perpetrator often"}, {"timestamp": [2120.0, 2122.0], "text": " was themselves closeted."}, {"timestamp": [2122.0, 2124.0], "text": " And so this is what's called"}, {"timestamp": [2124.0, 2126.0], "text": " marginalized self-hatred."}, {"timestamp": [2126.0, 2128.0], "text": " And this can happen to any marginalized"}, {"timestamp": [2128.0, 2130.0], "text": " group. But it also happens"}, {"timestamp": [2130.0, 2132.0], "text": " to us neuro-spicy people."}, {"timestamp": [2132.0, 2134.0], "text": " So often I have been treated worst"}, {"timestamp": [2134.0, 2136.0], "text": " by fellow neuro-spicy"}, {"timestamp": [2136.0, 2138.0], "text": " people who were in denial"}, {"timestamp": [2138.0, 2140.0], "text": " or trying to distance themselves"}, {"timestamp": [2140.0, 2142.0], "text": " from me in order to"}, {"timestamp": [2142.0, 2144.0], "text": " say, oh look, I'm not like Dave, I'm not"}, {"timestamp": [2144.0, 2145.68], "text": " that weird and eccentric, I'm not like Dave, I'm not that weird and eccentric,"}, {"timestamp": [2145.68, 2147.04], "text": " I'm more neurotypical."}, {"timestamp": [2147.04, 2153.32], "text": " And so basically the thing here is your true identity has been pathologized and harmed"}, {"timestamp": [2153.32, 2159.18], "text": " and so you try and de-identify with yourself and as such you also try and de-identify with"}, {"timestamp": [2159.18, 2161.36], "text": " people who are like you."}, {"timestamp": [2161.36, 2166.62], "text": " Which this is kind of the worst thing because not only are we disconnected from ourselves with marginalized self-hatred and"}, {"timestamp": [2166.96, 2174.62], "text": " Fortunately, this is something that I haven't personally struggled with but I've seen it and I've experienced it, you know secondhand I guess"}, {"timestamp": [2176.0, 2182.06], "text": " But yeah, and so like the key thing here is though is is recognizing this and breaking the cycle because often"}, {"timestamp": [2182.96, 2184.96], "text": " some of the some people that have"}, {"timestamp": [2182.0, 2184.0], "text": " this and breaking the cycle because often some people"}, {"timestamp": [2184.0, 2186.0], "text": " that have internalized"}, {"timestamp": [2186.0, 2188.0], "text": " that marginalized self-hatred"}, {"timestamp": [2188.0, 2190.0], "text": " they can be very vicious because"}, {"timestamp": [2190.0, 2192.0], "text": " they know exactly what buttons to press"}, {"timestamp": [2192.0, 2194.0], "text": " in order to trigger"}, {"timestamp": [2194.0, 2196.0], "text": " you or trigger the tippies and so"}, {"timestamp": [2196.0, 2198.0], "text": " then they say like, ah, see like"}, {"timestamp": [2198.0, 2200.0], "text": " I'm not like them, look, like"}, {"timestamp": [2200.0, 2202.0], "text": " let's push Dave until he has a meltdown and then"}, {"timestamp": [2202.0, 2204.0], "text": " pathologize the meltdown as"}, {"timestamp": [2204.0, 2208.58], "text": " obviously this is like aggressive behavior or whatever. I mean,"}, {"timestamp": [2208.58, 2209.42], "text": " it's like,"}, {"timestamp": [2209.48, 2212.76], "text": " I don't understand why being angry is quote aggressive behavior or even just"}, {"timestamp": [2212.76, 2217.76], "text": " like, so here's, here's what I mean is that when someone like me expresses anger,"}, {"timestamp": [2218.24, 2223.04], "text": " it is not like shouting or, or just being like, I'm, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [2223.04, 2230.34], "text": " like blah, blah, blah. Like I don don't do that I express it very flatly, but people see that is very like unnerving because it's like, you know"}, {"timestamp": [2230.34, 2231.9], "text": " It's I don't know why it's unnerving"}, {"timestamp": [2231.9, 2238.56], "text": " It's probably like cultural baggage and stuff because there's always all the tropes of like the ice-cold sociopathic killer"}, {"timestamp": [2239.38, 2243.92], "text": " But like if I try and express myself and just say like I am upset for these reasons"}, {"timestamp": [2243.92, 2245.92], "text": " I want you to stop doing this because I try and express myself and just say like, I am upset for these reasons, I want you to stop doing this"}, {"timestamp": [2245.92, 2248.04], "text": " because I'm not expressing myself emotionally"}, {"timestamp": [2248.04, 2249.74], "text": " the same way that other people do,"}, {"timestamp": [2249.74, 2252.08], "text": " they perceive it as like a threat of violence or something."}, {"timestamp": [2252.08, 2253.72], "text": " I don't know, I've never been violent."}, {"timestamp": [2253.72, 2254.88], "text": " I was just telling my wife,"}, {"timestamp": [2254.88, 2257.94], "text": " I've literally been in a grand total of two fights"}, {"timestamp": [2257.94, 2260.36], "text": " in my life and in both cases,"}, {"timestamp": [2260.36, 2261.96], "text": " it was because someone attacked a woman"}, {"timestamp": [2261.96, 2263.86], "text": " and I stopped the fight."}, {"timestamp": [2263.86, 2266.0], "text": " So it's like, I don't know."}, {"timestamp": [2266.0, 2269.0], "text": " Anyways, but this all goes back to being either deliberately"}, {"timestamp": [2269.0, 2272.0], "text": " or unintentionally miscategorized because"}, {"timestamp": [2272.0, 2275.0], "text": " if you express your emotions more flatly, tippies"}, {"timestamp": [2275.0, 2278.0], "text": " who are more comfortable with screaming and shouting for whatever"}, {"timestamp": [2278.0, 2281.0], "text": " reasons, they perceive that as more threatening than"}, {"timestamp": [2281.0, 2284.0], "text": " someone making themselves big and screaming."}, {"timestamp": [2284.0, 2288.0], "text": " There's a lot of hypocrisy. Let's see, performative inclusion."}, {"timestamp": [2288.0, 2292.0], "text": " So this is why I have vowed to never"}, {"timestamp": [2292.0, 2296.0], "text": " work for a corporation again, and that is because"}, {"timestamp": [2296.0, 2300.0], "text": " corporations only abide by the bottom line, and I"}, {"timestamp": [2300.0, 2304.0], "text": " probably would even ever work for an academic institution, because I've talked to"}, {"timestamp": [2304.0, 2305.5], "text": " some academic insiders."}, {"timestamp": [2305.5, 2308.5], "text": " Some of my best friends are still, are academics."}, {"timestamp": [2308.5, 2312.0], "text": " And they're like, oh yeah, like, it hasn't gotten any better."}, {"timestamp": [2312.0, 2315.0], "text": " But basically, so performative inclusion is where"}, {"timestamp": [2315.0, 2317.5], "text": " they just like, you know, they have the meeting,"}, {"timestamp": [2317.5, 2321.0], "text": " they have a DEI council, and then nothing actually happens."}, {"timestamp": [2321.0, 2325.44], "text": " And so the primary motivation for this is they're doing it for public relations"}, {"timestamp": [2331.28, 2336.72], "text": " reasons or they're doing it because of legal obligations, but they don't actually make any substantive changes. They make the noises. They say, oh hey, we're having a DEI day. We're going"}, {"timestamp": [2336.72, 2345.96], "text": " to send out an email about Black History Month. We're you know, a transgender day of visibility and all these things."}, {"timestamp": [2345.96, 2349.88], "text": " And so these are token efforts."}, {"timestamp": [2349.88, 2357.92], "text": " The actual real change comes from substantive policies that would basically result in harming"}, {"timestamp": [2357.92, 2358.92], "text": " tippies."}, {"timestamp": [2358.92, 2370.88], "text": " And so what I mean by this is bullying is basically ignored. And corporations and academic institutions will bend over backwards to ignore bullying."}, {"timestamp": [2370.88, 2374.56], "text": " All of them, every single one of them, they say that they have a zero tolerance policy"}, {"timestamp": [2374.56, 2381.6], "text": " towards bullying, but unless you have empirical proof, like video footage of it, they will"}, {"timestamp": [2381.6, 2387.1], "text": " basically say, well, we don't have any evidence, so unless you bring a lawsuit, we're not going to pursue"}, {"timestamp": [2387.1, 2390.2], "text": " this. And any excuse they can use to not"}, {"timestamp": [2390.2, 2391.9], "text": " investigate it, they will. So there's a few"}, {"timestamp": [2391.9, 2394.9], "text": " channels out there. I'll try and remember to"}, {"timestamp": [2394.9, 2397.7], "text": " put a link in the description, but like I"}, {"timestamp": [2397.7, 2400.0], "text": " watched some videos by an HR lawyer who's like"}, {"timestamp": [2400.0, 2402.1], "text": " who explained all of this and it's like what"}, {"timestamp": [2402.1, 2404.5], "text": " you need to understand about companies and"}, {"timestamp": [2404.5, 2407.08], "text": " this probably extends to government institutions"}, {"timestamp": [2407.08, 2409.2], "text": " and academic institutions as well,"}, {"timestamp": [2409.2, 2412.08], "text": " but the HR department is not there for the employee."}, {"timestamp": [2412.08, 2414.48], "text": " The primary purpose of an HR department"}, {"timestamp": [2414.48, 2416.92], "text": " is to protect the company from lawsuits."}, {"timestamp": [2416.92, 2418.64], "text": " So when you understand that, you say,"}, {"timestamp": [2418.64, 2421.8], "text": " oh, well, the reason that HR does a DEI initiative"}, {"timestamp": [2421.8, 2424.24], "text": " is to reduce the risk of lawsuits."}, {"timestamp": [2424.24, 2428.0], "text": " It's not to make a better workforce. It is literally about legal"}, {"timestamp": [2428.0, 2437.0], "text": " de-risking. And I know this is a really cynical thing, but I, you know, like I don't really blame corporations because they're engines that are there to optimize economic efficiency."}, {"timestamp": [2437.0, 2448.0], "text": " They're not there to optimize social well-being. That's not the purpose of a business. That's not the purpose of a corporation, which it sucks. So, but that's the way world works, and I don't like it, but I don't know how to change it."}, {"timestamp": [2448.0, 2454.0], "text": " So, one thing you can do, and this is something that has been good for me, which is why I'm wearing my Star Trek outfit,"}, {"timestamp": [2454.0, 2460.0], "text": " and this is why I also ban people who criticize me for wearing my Star Trek outfit, is deliberate non-conformity."}, {"timestamp": [2460.0, 2467.0], "text": " My wearing a Captain Picard shirt is an expression of deliberate nonconformity where it's,"}, {"timestamp": [2467.0, 2472.0], "text": " I'm going to express myself in a way that may or may not trigger people."}, {"timestamp": [2472.0, 2477.0], "text": " And if it triggers someone, that's their problem. It is no longer my problem."}, {"timestamp": [2477.0, 2482.0], "text": " I am no longer going to internalize someone else's judgment or being triggered."}, {"timestamp": [2482.0, 2484.0], "text": " And in many cases, I suspect the people that are like,"}, {"timestamp": [2484.0, 2486.36], "text": " Oh, it's difficult to take you seriously"}, {"timestamp": [2486.36, 2488.38], "text": " because you're wearing a Star Trek shirt."}, {"timestamp": [2488.38, 2491.94], "text": " It's like, it's not a it's not a freaking like swastika."}, {"timestamp": [2491.94, 2497.52], "text": " It's not, you know, like, there's nothing violent or controversial about it."}, {"timestamp": [2497.52, 2502.42], "text": " But I think what they're seeing is maybe some envy, or maybe maybe again, it's that kind"}, {"timestamp": [2502.42, 2508.0], "text": " of marginalized self hatred where it's like, wow, like, I wish I could wear a Star Trek outfit but I don't have the courage to do it."}, {"timestamp": [2508.0, 2512.0], "text": " And I've had people message me, some of the more conscientious messages, they're like"}, {"timestamp": [2512.0, 2516.0], "text": " one person said, Dave, consider not doing your"}, {"timestamp": [2516.0, 2520.0], "text": " assertive autism advocacy thing because I don't want that extra attention."}, {"timestamp": [2520.0, 2524.0], "text": " And I said, don't worry, I'm not going to draw attention to you, I'm drawing"}, {"timestamp": [2524.0, 2525.04], "text": " attention to me. I'm drawing attention to me."}, {"timestamp": [2526.72, 2531.92], "text": " I will be the voice. I will be the target and I will implement the zero tolerance policies and I"}, {"timestamp": [2531.92, 2537.92], "text": " will ban people that don't get this and I will continue with my message. And so that means,"}, {"timestamp": [2537.92, 2543.68], "text": " you know, unabashedly being, you know, self-expression, changing your appearances,"}, {"timestamp": [2543.68, 2545.68], "text": " changing the way you speak and the way that"}, {"timestamp": [2545.68, 2551.28], "text": " you live and stuff like, you know, I still feel guilty for walking away from a corporate"}, {"timestamp": [2551.28, 2553.7], "text": " job because of that ableist goblin."}, {"timestamp": [2553.7, 2554.7], "text": " But you know what?"}, {"timestamp": [2554.7, 2555.7], "text": " I needed to."}, {"timestamp": [2555.7, 2559.64], "text": " It was not a healthy environment and I need an environment where it's like, you know what?"}, {"timestamp": [2559.64, 2561.52], "text": " I woke up at one in the morning this morning."}, {"timestamp": [2561.52, 2564.36], "text": " I'm just going to go ahead and get my work done and I'll be done by five in the morning"}, {"timestamp": [2564.36, 2566.12], "text": " and then I'm going to go for a walk."}, {"timestamp": [2566.12, 2569.64], "text": " That's the life that I need, the lifestyle that I need."}, {"timestamp": [2569.64, 2578.6], "text": " It also means changing the way that you expect relationships to go and that sort of thing."}, {"timestamp": [2578.6, 2582.0], "text": " Namely getting rid of people that don't get it and don't respect you."}, {"timestamp": [2582.0, 2588.0], "text": " One of the things that happened about, what what was it about six months ago or so was"}, {"timestamp": [2588.0, 2592.0], "text": " as I was coming to terms with kind of unmasking"}, {"timestamp": [2592.0, 2596.0], "text": " I decided to unmask my giftedness. I decided to unmask"}, {"timestamp": [2596.0, 2600.0], "text": " all of my cognitive abilities and cognitive needs"}, {"timestamp": [2600.0, 2604.0], "text": " and it really pissed off a lot of my friends who are no longer my friends. They're like"}, {"timestamp": [2604.0, 2605.06], "text": " wow you're being too vain, you're being too vain."}, {"timestamp": [2605.06, 2606.18], "text": " You're being too narcissist."}, {"timestamp": [2606.18, 2607.5], "text": " You're not allowed to be angry."}, {"timestamp": [2607.62, 2610.26], "text": " Your anger makes me, it makes me uncomfortable."}, {"timestamp": [2610.44, 2613.76], "text": " Your, um, your abilities make me uncomfortable."}, {"timestamp": [2613.76, 2617.04], "text": " And I'm like, okay, well, like y'all are on the spectrum too."}, {"timestamp": [2617.04, 2618.42], "text": " You just don't realize it yet."}, {"timestamp": [2618.42, 2619.86], "text": " And they're like, well, whatever."}, {"timestamp": [2619.86, 2620.34], "text": " So."}, {"timestamp": [2621.26, 2622.22], "text": " Agree to disagree."}, {"timestamp": [2623.02, 2625.48], "text": " Um, it is what it is."}, {"timestamp": [2625.48, 2628.78], "text": " But I then so here's here's what happens."}, {"timestamp": [2628.78, 2629.78], "text": " Here's the takeaway."}, {"timestamp": [2629.78, 2636.28], "text": " Here's what happens when you get rid of people who are not aligned is you make room for people"}, {"timestamp": [2636.28, 2637.66], "text": " who are aligned."}, {"timestamp": [2637.66, 2643.6], "text": " And so like, you know, I, you know, when you when your social calendar is empty or emptier,"}, {"timestamp": [2643.6, 2646.68], "text": " and you're like, Hmm, well, who do I know that is aligned?"}, {"timestamp": [2646.68, 2648.58], "text": " And then you message them and say,"}, {"timestamp": [2648.58, 2652.12], "text": " hey, like, I've got a friend that I've known for a while"}, {"timestamp": [2652.12, 2654.22], "text": " that I've been deliberately making more time"}, {"timestamp": [2654.22, 2656.32], "text": " because we will get together and just talk"}, {"timestamp": [2656.32, 2657.54], "text": " for like two hours straight"}, {"timestamp": [2657.54, 2660.08], "text": " about the most obscure philosophical stuff"}, {"timestamp": [2660.08, 2661.68], "text": " and we'll have a really good talk."}, {"timestamp": [2661.68, 2664.1], "text": " And actually I need to text him."}, {"timestamp": [2664.1, 2666.0], "text": " I have another slide about building friends in a little bit,"}, {"timestamp": [2666.0, 2668.0], "text": " so we'll get back to that."}, {"timestamp": [2668.0, 2669.2], "text": " Strict boundaries."}, {"timestamp": [2669.2, 2672.6], "text": " So I've alluded to this, and there are numerous reasons that"}, {"timestamp": [2672.6, 2675.2], "text": " we neuro-spicy people need strict boundaries."}, {"timestamp": [2675.2, 2677.8], "text": " I mentioned predators earlier,"}, {"timestamp": [2677.8, 2680.8], "text": " but there's some other aspects to it,"}, {"timestamp": [2680.8, 2683.8], "text": " and this is why I had a slide very early on"}, {"timestamp": [2683.8, 2687.12], "text": " about systematic self-neglect"}, {"timestamp": [2687.12, 2691.32], "text": " is we are basically taught to not have boundaries."}, {"timestamp": [2691.32, 2696.32], "text": " We are taught that our boundaries are not acceptable or tolerated and in fact one of"}, {"timestamp": [2696.32, 2701.84], "text": " the reasons that I cancelled my subscription to the Claude chatbot is because it is incredibly"}, {"timestamp": [2701.84, 2702.84], "text": " ableist."}, {"timestamp": [2702.84, 2706.0], "text": " I can't, yeah I cancelled my subscription to Anthropic because their chat it is incredibly ableist. I canceled my subscription to Anthropic"}, {"timestamp": [2706.0, 2709.0], "text": " because their chatbot is incredibly ableist"}, {"timestamp": [2709.0, 2712.0], "text": " and it says, well, no, you shouldn't judge"}, {"timestamp": [2712.0, 2715.0], "text": " people and have strong boundaries because"}, {"timestamp": [2715.0, 2718.0], "text": " you need to give everyone the benefit of the doubt."}, {"timestamp": [2718.0, 2721.0], "text": " The benefit of the doubt is exactly what toxic people"}, {"timestamp": [2721.0, 2724.0], "text": " rely on. Plausible deniability,"}, {"timestamp": [2724.0, 2726.4], "text": " benefit of the doubt and"}, {"timestamp": [2726.4, 2729.7], "text": " and and and the good graces of"}, {"timestamp": [2729.7, 2732.6], "text": " people that are more vulnerable and more desperate."}, {"timestamp": [2732.6, 2735.46], "text": " This is exactly what toxic"}, {"timestamp": [2735.46, 2738.3], "text": " abusive predators prey on those"}, {"timestamp": [2738.3, 2741.2], "text": " three things specifically and"}, {"timestamp": [2741.2, 2743.82], "text": " I tried to have a conversation with Claude about that and it"}, {"timestamp": [2743.82, 2748.0], "text": " said no you need to look at the world through this way. I'm like, you are being ableist. And it's like, well,"}, {"timestamp": [2748.0, 2752.0], "text": " if you disagree with this, you can appeal to the"}, {"timestamp": [2752.0, 2756.0], "text": " Anthropics Board of Ethics or whatever. And I was like, or I'm going to cancel my subscription and make a"}, {"timestamp": [2756.0, 2760.0], "text": " YouTube video about it. So that's what I'm doing. So,"}, {"timestamp": [2760.0, 2764.0], "text": " strict boundaries means canceling a subscription to a chatbot that is"}, {"timestamp": [2764.0, 2765.7], "text": " an ableist goblin."}, {"timestamp": [2765.7, 2769.32], "text": " It also might mean establishing very strong personal limits."}, {"timestamp": [2769.32, 2776.36], "text": " I have developed a more powerful set of gut instincts and I've tested it a few times where"}, {"timestamp": [2776.36, 2782.36], "text": " so say for instance someone reaches out to me and they want to talk about a business"}, {"timestamp": [2782.36, 2786.08], "text": " deal or consulting or whatever and"}, {"timestamp": [2793.12, 2794.16], "text": " It can it's like it. I have this like sixth sense this intuition. It's like something just isn't right and so then I'll"}, {"timestamp": [2800.36, 2802.36], "text": " Every time I give someone the benefit of the doubt like conscientiously saying all right. I'll give them a chance it never works out So I just trust my gut instincts"}, {"timestamp": [2802.76, 2804.76], "text": " From day one now now obviously"}, {"timestamp": [2803.1, 2806.34], "text": " works out. So I just trust my gut instincts from day one now now obviously trusting your gut"}, {"timestamp": [2806.34, 2808.94], "text": " instincts. If you have not reconnected with your gut"}, {"timestamp": [2808.94, 2811.34], "text": " instincts, don't do that because your gut instincts"}, {"timestamp": [2811.34, 2814.22], "text": " are to be placating and to be people pleasing. So if"}, {"timestamp": [2814.22, 2816.42], "text": " you're still in the placating and people pleasing"}, {"timestamp": [2816.42, 2819.34], "text": " don't trust your gut instincts. But what I have"}, {"timestamp": [2819.34, 2822.06], "text": " done is I trust when I feel suspicious of someone"}, {"timestamp": [2822.06, 2824.9], "text": " and I have developed a lot. Well, not a lot several"}, {"timestamp": [2824.9, 2826.0], "text": " several very strong rules"}, {"timestamp": [2826.0, 2829.0], "text": " but basically it's the one strike you're out rule"}, {"timestamp": [2829.0, 2832.0], "text": " which is like one boundary violation"}, {"timestamp": [2832.0, 2835.0], "text": " block, if I have to push back"}, {"timestamp": [2835.0, 2838.0], "text": " if it gets to the point where I have to push back on someone"}, {"timestamp": [2838.0, 2841.0], "text": " because of boundaries or because of not respecting my time"}, {"timestamp": [2841.0, 2844.0], "text": " block, all of those things and"}, {"timestamp": [2844.0, 2846.74], "text": " here's the thing is, in some cases,"}, {"timestamp": [2846.74, 2851.26], "text": " I think that they are being deliberately manipulative"}, {"timestamp": [2851.26, 2853.0], "text": " or have ill intentions."}, {"timestamp": [2853.0, 2856.26], "text": " But in other cases, I know they just don't know any better,"}, {"timestamp": [2856.26, 2858.18], "text": " but that is part of neurotypical privilege."}, {"timestamp": [2858.18, 2860.02], "text": " Part of neurotypical privilege"}, {"timestamp": [2860.02, 2862.02], "text": " is the privilege of being ignorant"}, {"timestamp": [2862.02, 2865.12], "text": " and saying, I don't understand what I did wrong. Telling someone, like if someone tells you, I don't understand what I did wrong."}, {"timestamp": [2865.12, 2866.76], "text": " Telling someone, like if someone tells you,"}, {"timestamp": [2866.76, 2868.24], "text": " I don't understand what I did wrong,"}, {"timestamp": [2868.24, 2869.88], "text": " I don't understand why you're so upset,"}, {"timestamp": [2869.88, 2871.24], "text": " that's gaslighting,"}, {"timestamp": [2871.24, 2873.82], "text": " because that's prioritizing their confusion"}, {"timestamp": [2873.82, 2877.76], "text": " over your hurt or your anger or your need for safety."}, {"timestamp": [2877.76, 2880.72], "text": " So if someone says, I don't understand what I did wrong,"}, {"timestamp": [2880.72, 2883.58], "text": " that usually results in a block as well, because why?"}, {"timestamp": [2883.58, 2886.88], "text": " I'd rather interact with people that don't have that deficit"}, {"timestamp": [2886.88, 2890.56], "text": " They don't have that misunderstanding. I'd rather interact with people who get it"}, {"timestamp": [2890.88, 2895.52], "text": " And that has served me well because like I said that makes more space for people who do get it"}, {"timestamp": [2895.6, 2898.94], "text": " Rather than wasting time and energy on people who don't get it now"}, {"timestamp": [2898.94, 2902.52], "text": " Yes in a in a healthy world if I were neurotypical"}, {"timestamp": [2902.96, 2905.68], "text": " Then all of these things would would seem to be like,"}, {"timestamp": [2905.68, 2908.84], "text": " wow Dave, you're super suspicious, you're super paranoid."}, {"timestamp": [2908.84, 2915.12], "text": " But having to move through the world with my requirements and vulnerabilities and experiences,"}, {"timestamp": [2915.12, 2918.96], "text": " everything that I'm doing makes perfect sense from my experience."}, {"timestamp": [2918.96, 2922.84], "text": " And that's why I'm making this video, so that you understand that this is actually normal"}, {"timestamp": [2922.84, 2927.52], "text": " and healthy. Radical self-acceptance. So this has been part of"}, {"timestamp": [2929.0, 2930.2], "text": " like"}, {"timestamp": [2930.2, 2933.2], "text": " we talk about authenticity and stuff like that, but"}, {"timestamp": [2934.12, 2937.44], "text": " authenticity is is one thing but radical self-acceptance is like"}, {"timestamp": [2938.18, 2940.04], "text": " turning it up to 11."}, {"timestamp": [2940.04, 2947.32], "text": " So basically there is we are programmed by our culture by our family by our workplace by our friends to"}, {"timestamp": [2947.44, 2954.4], "text": " Understand how we quote-unquote should be this includes everything from what we eat how we eat what we do for fun"}, {"timestamp": [2954.48, 2960.34], "text": " How we feel about the world like, you know, those friends that I told you about they're like Dave you shouldn't be angry"}, {"timestamp": [2960.34, 2968.8], "text": " You're not allowed to be angry because it's your fault for being different. And it's like, that's some horseshit."}, {"timestamp": [2968.8, 2971.8], "text": " So it's like, no, I actually should be angry because I have been mistreated."}, {"timestamp": [2971.8, 2977.36], "text": " And I'll talk about the definitions of healthy anger in just a moment."}, {"timestamp": [2977.36, 2982.24], "text": " But so like, for instance, I mentioned that I'm repairing my relationship with food."}, {"timestamp": [2982.24, 2989.28], "text": " Like many neuro spicy people, I was a very like not necessarily a picky eater. I've"}, {"timestamp": [2989.28, 2992.88], "text": " always been a good eater, but there are just certain things that I just would not eat."}, {"timestamp": [2993.52, 2999.92], "text": " But my stepdad was a very like traditional disciplinarian, and he's like, you will eat"}, {"timestamp": [2999.92, 3007.72], "text": " what we give you and you will eat all of it. And so I learned that if, even if something made me feel sick or hurt me,"}, {"timestamp": [3007.72, 3010.8], "text": " I needed to eat it and I needed to eat all of it."}, {"timestamp": [3010.8, 3012.8], "text": " And so because of that,"}, {"timestamp": [3012.8, 3015.78], "text": " I have been a binge eater my entire life."}, {"timestamp": [3015.78, 3019.2], "text": " I have habitually overeaten"}, {"timestamp": [3019.2, 3022.44], "text": " and I will continue to eat things even after I feel sick."}, {"timestamp": [3022.44, 3024.52], "text": " And so I had to like change the rules."}, {"timestamp": [3024.52, 3026.94], "text": " So I was like, I realized that was the schema,"}, {"timestamp": [3026.94, 3028.92], "text": " which is eat everything in front of me,"}, {"timestamp": [3028.92, 3030.52], "text": " no matter how it makes me feel."}, {"timestamp": [3030.52, 3033.18], "text": " And so then I said like, you know what?"}, {"timestamp": [3033.18, 3035.78], "text": " Now my rule is I'm only gonna eat things"}, {"timestamp": [3035.78, 3038.06], "text": " that I wanna eat, that make me feel good."}, {"timestamp": [3038.06, 3040.52], "text": " If something hurts, I stop eating it forever."}, {"timestamp": [3040.52, 3043.98], "text": " And whatever I happen to be craving, I'll eat that."}, {"timestamp": [3043.98, 3047.64], "text": " But also I will only eat until I am not hungry anymore."}, {"timestamp": [3047.64, 3051.64], "text": " Like rather than saying eating until I'm uncomfortably full,"}, {"timestamp": [3051.64, 3053.7], "text": " now my rule is I will only eat"}, {"timestamp": [3053.7, 3055.52], "text": " until I am just barely satisfied,"}, {"timestamp": [3055.52, 3057.12], "text": " and that seems to be healthy."}, {"timestamp": [3057.12, 3059.7], "text": " And so I made this image because sometimes"}, {"timestamp": [3059.7, 3062.24], "text": " I just want a plate full of chicken fingers."}, {"timestamp": [3062.24, 3064.64], "text": " I know that sounds very childish, but you know what?"}, {"timestamp": [3064.64, 3068.28], "text": " I'm not trying to impress anyone. Also, I'm a foodie. Like, I love"}, {"timestamp": [3068.28, 3074.2], "text": " good food. I love, like, really high-end Thai and Indian and Mediterranean and"}, {"timestamp": [3074.2, 3077.4], "text": " Greek, but sometimes I just want a plate full of chicken fingers, and there's"}, {"timestamp": [3077.4, 3081.4], "text": " nothing wrong with that. Building friendships. So I promised that I would"}, {"timestamp": [3081.4, 3084.6], "text": " talk a little bit more about how to build friendships as a NeuroSpicy"}, {"timestamp": [3084.6, 3089.36], "text": " person. Obviously, I talked about losing friends and ejecting people and you know"}, {"timestamp": [3089.36, 3094.08], "text": " it's very easy to justify being a complete loner especially if you've been mistreated the way that"}, {"timestamp": [3094.08, 3099.12], "text": " many of us neuro-spicy people have. And it was actually it's actually really sad and part of"}, {"timestamp": [3099.12, 3106.38], "text": " the reason that I wanted to add this is because I've seen quite a few videos lately of people talking about how lonely they are."}, {"timestamp": [3106.38, 3109.0], "text": " And many of them are neuro-spicy."}, {"timestamp": [3109.0, 3113.12], "text": " Some of them I think are in denial, or at least they haven't publicly come out about"}, {"timestamp": [3113.12, 3114.12], "text": " being neuro-spicy."}, {"timestamp": [3114.12, 3115.12], "text": " And that's fine."}, {"timestamp": [3115.12, 3117.32], "text": " I'm not saying that you have to tell anyone."}, {"timestamp": [3117.32, 3118.78], "text": " You don't."}, {"timestamp": [3118.78, 3126.8], "text": " But once I cleared my social calendar of people that were not aligned with my needs and not aligned with"}, {"timestamp": [3126.8, 3133.44], "text": " Neuro Spicy narratives, I realized like, okay, well, it's basically like me, my wife, and like"}, {"timestamp": [3133.44, 3138.16], "text": " one or two friends that I see occasionally. And I was like, what do I do to fix this? And I was like,"}, {"timestamp": [3138.16, 3142.64], "text": " maybe I should join meetup groups, maybe I should start meetup groups, maybe I should spend more"}, {"timestamp": [3142.64, 3146.34], "text": " time online, like I did all of those things. And then it occurred to me, I was like, wait,"}, {"timestamp": [3146.34, 3149.06], "text": " what I really want is just a few very good"}, {"timestamp": [3149.06, 3149.9], "text": " close connections."}, {"timestamp": [3149.9, 3152.42], "text": " I wanna be close to people like I'm close to my wife."}, {"timestamp": [3152.42, 3154.9], "text": " And so then I was like, oh, well that's easy."}, {"timestamp": [3154.9, 3156.5], "text": " So I just started texting people."}, {"timestamp": [3156.5, 3160.52], "text": " I was like, it was just not in my mental menu"}, {"timestamp": [3160.52, 3162.34], "text": " of things that I could do, or it's like,"}, {"timestamp": [3162.34, 3163.62], "text": " I like that person."}, {"timestamp": [3163.62, 3166.06], "text": " Let me just shoot them an email and ask to hang out. And it's like, I like that person. Let me like, just shoot them an email and ask"}, {"timestamp": [3166.06, 3166.68], "text": " to hang out."}, {"timestamp": [3167.08, 3169.08], "text": " And it's like, so, you know, I reconnected with"}, {"timestamp": [3169.08, 3170.48], "text": " some of my, my good friends."}, {"timestamp": [3170.68, 3171.8], "text": " I've made new friends."}, {"timestamp": [3171.8, 3173.5], "text": " I, that's how I got some of my mentors."}, {"timestamp": [3173.5, 3175.84], "text": " It's just like, I was just like, I like what"}, {"timestamp": [3175.84, 3177.06], "text": " this person has to say."}, {"timestamp": [3177.22, 3178.32], "text": " They seem to get me."}, {"timestamp": [3178.5, 3181.68], "text": " So I'm going to make the effort to just send a"}, {"timestamp": [3181.68, 3182.74], "text": " text, send an email."}, {"timestamp": [3182.74, 3188.0], "text": " It's low stakes and just say like, I don't tell them them like, I want to get close to you. I just said"}, {"timestamp": [3188.0, 3192.0], "text": " like, I said to them, I was like, hey, I really enjoyed that conversation we had."}, {"timestamp": [3192.0, 3196.0], "text": " Do you want to get coffee and talk again? So like my friend that I talk philosophy with,"}, {"timestamp": [3196.0, 3200.0], "text": " like, I think that, I think that like he was jazzed. I was like,"}, {"timestamp": [3200.0, 3204.0], "text": " hey man, like, let's go talk philosophy again, and then while we were talking"}, {"timestamp": [3204.0, 3205.56], "text": " we discovered that we both like climbing, so I was like, let's go talk philosophy again. And then while we were talking, we discovered that we both like climbing."}, {"timestamp": [3205.56, 3206.88], "text": " So it's like, let's go climbing too."}, {"timestamp": [3207.38, 3209.84], "text": " But the idea is that it's like, it's very focused."}, {"timestamp": [3209.84, 3212.12], "text": " It's laser focused on one person at a time."}, {"timestamp": [3212.48, 3217.64], "text": " As a systems thinker, like many of many people like me will try and approach"}, {"timestamp": [3217.64, 3219.88], "text": " friendship systematically, which is okay."}, {"timestamp": [3219.88, 3224.76], "text": " Well, that means I need to join a group because groups are lower, like pressure."}, {"timestamp": [3224.76, 3225.08], "text": " Like I can just show up. I don't have to talk to anyone specifically. Well, that means I need to join a group because groups are lower pressure."}, {"timestamp": [3225.08, 3227.2], "text": " I can just show up, I don't have to talk to anyone"}, {"timestamp": [3227.2, 3230.04], "text": " specifically, but what I realized by hosting"}, {"timestamp": [3230.04, 3231.96], "text": " and going to groups is that it was actually very empty"}, {"timestamp": [3231.96, 3235.44], "text": " and I often felt worse going to groups or hosting groups."}, {"timestamp": [3235.44, 3237.52], "text": " And so what instead I've done,"}, {"timestamp": [3237.52, 3239.48], "text": " and this is many, many NeuroSpicy people"}, {"timestamp": [3239.48, 3240.96], "text": " prefer one-on-one interactions."}, {"timestamp": [3240.96, 3244.44], "text": " So I was like, all right, I prefer one-on-one interactions"}, {"timestamp": [3244.44, 3248.66], "text": " and I've got a whole bunch of people that I actually admire and appreciate, and so I had to get"}, {"timestamp": [3248.66, 3255.48], "text": " over some social anxiety, and I had to also get over the insecurity of like, I honestly"}, {"timestamp": [3255.48, 3260.42], "text": " like, I don't have this feeling anymore, and it feels weird to look back on it, but I used"}, {"timestamp": [3260.42, 3264.94], "text": " to have this feeling of like imposter syndrome, like I'm not worthy of that person. I'm not"}, {"timestamp": [3264.94, 3266.72], "text": " worthy to be friends with that person."}, {"timestamp": [3266.72, 3267.84], "text": " They're too good for me."}, {"timestamp": [3268.16, 3270.24], "text": " And like even just saying that out loud,"}, {"timestamp": [3270.24, 3270.58], "text": " I'm like,"}, {"timestamp": [3271.04, 3272.44], "text": " why did I ever believe that?"}, {"timestamp": [3272.92, 3273.24], "text": " I don't know."}, {"timestamp": [3273.26, 3273.72], "text": " Anyways."}, {"timestamp": [3274.58, 3278.08], "text": " So now I have like friends from like really cool places,"}, {"timestamp": [3278.28, 3280.68], "text": " like Ivy league schools all over the place."}, {"timestamp": [3280.88, 3281.28], "text": " Um,"}, {"timestamp": [3281.28, 3283.64], "text": " people that work like at the big tech companies,"}, {"timestamp": [3283.82, 3285.28], "text": " people that are like the smartest people that I've ever met. Some of the kindest people that I ever met, like people that I look up, people that work at the big tech companies, people that are the smartest people"}, {"timestamp": [3285.28, 3289.04], "text": " that I've ever met, some of the kindest people that I've ever met, people that I look up"}, {"timestamp": [3289.04, 3292.82], "text": " to, people that impress me, and I'm like, yeah, of course I'm worthy of them."}, {"timestamp": [3292.82, 3293.82], "text": " They're worthy of me."}, {"timestamp": [3293.82, 3295.04], "text": " This is a good match."}, {"timestamp": [3295.04, 3301.72], "text": " So anyways, yeah, let me know in the comments if you want me to unpack any more of building"}, {"timestamp": [3301.72, 3305.0], "text": " friends as a NeuroSpicy person person or any of the other topics."}, {"timestamp": [3305.0, 3307.0], "text": " Anyways, give me some ideas."}, {"timestamp": [3307.0, 3310.0], "text": " Okay, so I promised that we would talk about anger."}, {"timestamp": [3310.0, 3316.0], "text": " Getting back in touch with anger is actually a really important aspect of coming to terms with being neuro spicy."}, {"timestamp": [3316.0, 3322.0], "text": " So, anger is a has a very specific purpose and this is for both men and women,"}, {"timestamp": [3322.0, 3325.24], "text": " for all people, all humans, and actually many animals."}, {"timestamp": [3325.82, 3329.76], "text": " Anger is a healthy emotional response to injustice, frustration,"}, {"timestamp": [3330.6, 3332.6], "text": " boundary violations, and danger."}, {"timestamp": [3334.08, 3339.04], "text": " Anger exists on a spectrum from irritation to resentment to rage, and"}, {"timestamp": [3339.64, 3342.08], "text": " the purpose of anger, it is a"}, {"timestamp": [3342.96, 3347.28], "text": " biophysiological response to give you the energy to right a wrong. That is the purpose of anger, it is a biophysiological response to give you the energy to right a"}, {"timestamp": [3347.28, 3348.28], "text": " wrong."}, {"timestamp": [3348.28, 3349.44], "text": " That is the purpose of anger."}, {"timestamp": [3349.44, 3352.6], "text": " I'm actually getting chills just like articulating that."}, {"timestamp": [3352.6, 3360.16], "text": " Now, as a neuro-spicy person, we are often, our anger is often invalidated."}, {"timestamp": [3360.16, 3361.28], "text": " We're told to contain it."}, {"timestamp": [3361.28, 3363.94], "text": " We're told that it's not legitimate."}, {"timestamp": [3363.94, 3366.7], "text": " We are told that like we don't have legitimate grievances."}, {"timestamp": [3367.3, 3370.4], "text": " And because of all this we often suppress our anger."}, {"timestamp": [3370.7, 3372.7], "text": " And so then when you suppress anger,"}, {"timestamp": [3372.9, 3374.5], "text": " it can come out in any number of ways."}, {"timestamp": [3374.6, 3378.2], "text": " If you want to watch some videos of Dr. Gabor Mate,"}, {"timestamp": [3378.6, 3381.2], "text": " he talks a lot about trauma and anger."}, {"timestamp": [3382.0, 3383.9], "text": " But so this is like the CliffsNotes version."}, {"timestamp": [3385.2, 3386.52], "text": " Definitely recommend you look them up."}, {"timestamp": [3386.52, 3389.68], "text": " But, if you suppress anger, it can,"}, {"timestamp": [3389.68, 3392.28], "text": " one, eventually your body will take it out on itself"}, {"timestamp": [3392.28, 3395.84], "text": " in the form of autoimmune disease and chronic stress"}, {"timestamp": [3395.84, 3398.56], "text": " and heart disease and all kinds of health issues."}, {"timestamp": [3398.56, 3400.32], "text": " But, you can also take it out on yourself"}, {"timestamp": [3400.32, 3402.32], "text": " in any number of ways."}, {"timestamp": [3402.32, 3405.48], "text": " Some people punish themselves by working too hard or"}, {"timestamp": [3405.48, 3412.16], "text": " forms of self-deprivation. It can come out as anxiety, depression. It can also be"}, {"timestamp": [3412.16, 3417.48], "text": " transferred to other people. And so transference in this case is where anger"}, {"timestamp": [3417.48, 3422.12], "text": " is or displacement. Displacement or transference? I don't remember. Anyways,"}, {"timestamp": [3422.12, 3426.0], "text": " but basically where emotion is expressed at the wrong person."}, {"timestamp": [3426.0, 3428.0], "text": " Because you might feel like"}, {"timestamp": [3428.0, 3430.0], "text": " you're not able or allowed to express"}, {"timestamp": [3430.0, 3432.0], "text": " anger at the people who deserve it."}, {"timestamp": [3432.0, 3434.0], "text": " And so you express it at someone"}, {"timestamp": [3434.0, 3436.0], "text": " who is more vulnerable than yourself."}, {"timestamp": [3436.0, 3438.0], "text": " Which is why, unfortunately,"}, {"timestamp": [3438.0, 3440.0], "text": " why many traumatized"}, {"timestamp": [3440.0, 3442.0], "text": " people or neuro-spicy people"}, {"timestamp": [3442.0, 3444.0], "text": " end up taking out their anger or frustration"}, {"timestamp": [3444.0, 3445.24], "text": " on their dog"}, {"timestamp": [3445.24, 3448.12], "text": " or their spouse or their children."}, {"timestamp": [3448.12, 3450.12], "text": " And that's something that I never understood until recently."}, {"timestamp": [3450.12, 3454.96], "text": " I was like, I don't understand why, how and why a parent could be like deliberately cruel"}, {"timestamp": [3454.96, 3458.64], "text": " to their child, but it was a matter of power."}, {"timestamp": [3458.64, 3461.28], "text": " Their child might've been the only person that they had power over."}, {"timestamp": [3461.28, 3469.12], "text": " And it's like, oh, that makes more sense to me now. Or their dog is the only person that they had power over and it's like, oh, that makes more sense to me now. Or their dog is the only person that they had power over. I had seen that like my entire life"}, {"timestamp": [3469.12, 3475.68], "text": " and so like whenever I interact with like my spouse or my dog or children of any kind, it's like"}, {"timestamp": [3476.56, 3481.52], "text": " I am very conscientious of the power dynamic there and I make sure not to ever abuse it."}, {"timestamp": [3482.72, 3486.62], "text": " Yeah, so anyways, I think that's about it for anger."}, {"timestamp": [3486.62, 3491.4], "text": " Just understanding that anger is, it has a very distinct purpose."}, {"timestamp": [3491.4, 3496.76], "text": " Now one caution that I will have is don't identify with your anger."}, {"timestamp": [3496.76, 3499.74], "text": " Anger can be very satisfying when you first get in touch with it."}, {"timestamp": [3499.74, 3503.96], "text": " It can almost be like a luring and this is like, we all have a model for this because"}, {"timestamp": [3503.96, 3509.68], "text": " of Star Wars, like the Sith are are like give in to your anger and so like literally the philosophy of the Sith is your"}, {"timestamp": [3509.68, 3515.44], "text": " anger is righteously justified and you should use it you should weaponize it don't do that but what"}, {"timestamp": [3515.44, 3520.64], "text": " I am saying is that anger healthy anger has a purpose but don't indulge in it don't wallow in"}, {"timestamp": [3520.64, 3525.44], "text": " it and don't deliberately magnify it like use it to right a wrong and then move on."}, {"timestamp": [3526.48, 3527.4], "text": " De-minimizing."}, {"timestamp": [3527.4, 3530.36], "text": " So all of this is part of what is called de-minimizing."}, {"timestamp": [3530.36, 3532.48], "text": " And actually many dictionaries"}, {"timestamp": [3532.48, 3534.64], "text": " don't actually have this word de-minimizing."}, {"timestamp": [3534.64, 3537.44], "text": " They have minimizing, but they don't have de-minimizing."}, {"timestamp": [3537.44, 3539.16], "text": " So de-minimizing here, let me just read this."}, {"timestamp": [3539.16, 3541.3], "text": " It involves acknowledging and addressing"}, {"timestamp": [3541.3, 3543.52], "text": " suppressed bodily signals, buried emotions,"}, {"timestamp": [3543.52, 3544.96], "text": " and painful memories."}, {"timestamp": [3544.96, 3548.72], "text": " This process is often unpleasant and is a critical part of healing from trauma,"}, {"timestamp": [3548.72, 3552.84], "text": " injustice, and mistreatment. It's akin to realizing a smoke alarm has been sounding"}, {"timestamp": [3552.84, 3557.08], "text": " unnoticed and it's a crucial step in reconnecting with oneself. So this is"}, {"timestamp": [3557.08, 3564.44], "text": " probably the worst part of worst and hardest and the longest part of coming"}, {"timestamp": [3564.44, 3566.24], "text": " to terms with being neuro-spicy,"}, {"timestamp": [3566.24, 3569.32], "text": " and that is learning to recognize the tension in your body."}, {"timestamp": [3569.32, 3571.76], "text": " And then when you recognize it, it hurts a lot."}, {"timestamp": [3571.76, 3573.62], "text": " And it's like, how was I in this much pain"}, {"timestamp": [3573.62, 3574.88], "text": " and didn't notice it?"}, {"timestamp": [3574.88, 3578.04], "text": " Or reconnecting with my digestive health,"}, {"timestamp": [3578.04, 3580.24], "text": " like realizing my stomach has hurt"}, {"timestamp": [3580.24, 3582.6], "text": " for literally 20 years straight,"}, {"timestamp": [3582.6, 3583.64], "text": " and I just ignored it."}, {"timestamp": [3583.64, 3587.24], "text": " And then it's like, oh, now that I'm paying attention to it, I have reflux."}, {"timestamp": [3587.24, 3591.24], "text": " Now I have like, you know, all these other issues, but finally I've gotten past that."}, {"timestamp": [3591.24, 3594.48], "text": " Um, and I'm actually comfortable in my body most days."}, {"timestamp": [3594.48, 3599.28], "text": " Um, and so then, you know, you, you find those signals, you unsuppress them and it really"}, {"timestamp": [3599.28, 3600.28], "text": " sucks."}, {"timestamp": [3600.28, 3605.76], "text": " Um, unearthing those, those buried emotions really sucks and it can be very difficult."}, {"timestamp": [3605.76, 3610.36], "text": " Uh, it's very unpleasant, but then it all has to be expressed some way."}, {"timestamp": [3610.36, 3614.6], "text": " Um, sometimes that means going to the gym, going on a long biking session."}, {"timestamp": [3614.6, 3618.48], "text": " It might mean crying, it might mean shaking, like almost to the point of like convulsing."}, {"timestamp": [3618.48, 3623.08], "text": " Um, but the idea is like you've, like when you've suppressed things for a long period"}, {"timestamp": [3623.08, 3626.68], "text": " of time, you're tense and you're not allowing yourself to express it"}, {"timestamp": [3627.04, 3630.48], "text": " Physically or otherwise and that can take that can be a long process"}, {"timestamp": [3631.64, 3638.46], "text": " But also the key thing is once you've do minimize something you have to make change you have to adapt to say hey"}, {"timestamp": [3638.6, 3643.82], "text": " Let's stop doing the thing that's causing the fire in the first place and that might mean leaving a job"}, {"timestamp": [3643.82, 3646.38], "text": " It might mean leaving a job, it might mean leaving a relationship, it might mean"}, {"timestamp": [3646.38, 3652.26], "text": " changing where you live or changing your lifestyle or any number of other things is legitimate"}, {"timestamp": [3652.26, 3654.56], "text": " grievances."}, {"timestamp": [3654.56, 3657.06], "text": " I think I accidentally deleted the slide, I apologize."}, {"timestamp": [3657.06, 3660.94], "text": " Okay, so the slide that's missing is legitimate grievances."}, {"timestamp": [3660.94, 3666.76], "text": " And so the point of this slide is that all of these things that I'm talking about, if you feel them to, these are legitimate grievances. And so the point of this slide is that all of these things that I'm talking about if you feel them to these are"}, {"timestamp": [3667.0, 3672.26], "text": " legitimate grievances. So a legitimate grievance basically says you have the social,"}, {"timestamp": [3672.84, 3680.64], "text": " emotional, and legal right to feel the way that you do and to have these grievances with your family, with society,"}, {"timestamp": [3681.4, 3683.4], "text": " with whoever has wronged you."}, {"timestamp": [3683.88, 3691.28], "text": " This is the key purpose of this video is part of healing, part of coming to terms with being"}, {"timestamp": [3691.28, 3696.0], "text": " NeuroSpicy is recognizing that your grievances are legitimate."}, {"timestamp": [3696.0, 3700.72], "text": " Now like the anger one, that doesn't mean that you have a right to wallow in it and"}, {"timestamp": [3700.72, 3706.0], "text": " lash out at everyone sight unseen because you have legitimate grievances. All I'm"}, {"timestamp": [3706.0, 3708.0], "text": " saying is that you don't have to minimize"}, {"timestamp": [3708.0, 3710.0], "text": " it. You don't have to hide"}, {"timestamp": [3710.0, 3712.0], "text": " it and you don't, you also"}, {"timestamp": [3712.0, 3714.0], "text": " don't have to allow people to"}, {"timestamp": [3714.0, 3716.0], "text": " delegitimize your"}, {"timestamp": [3716.0, 3718.0], "text": " grievances. People are not allowed to"}, {"timestamp": [3718.0, 3720.0], "text": " gaslight you but again that doesn't mean that you can"}, {"timestamp": [3720.0, 3722.0], "text": " then weaponize your grievances as"}, {"timestamp": [3722.0, 3724.0], "text": " a lot of people try and do, particularly like"}, {"timestamp": [3724.0, 3726.32], "text": " the social justice warriors online. Weaponized grievances, as a lot of people try and do, particularly like the social justice warriors online."}, {"timestamp": [3726.32, 3728.64], "text": " Weaponized grievances don't do anyone any favors,"}, {"timestamp": [3728.64, 3731.56], "text": " but legitimate grievances are worth talking about,"}, {"timestamp": [3731.56, 3733.4], "text": " worth healing from."}, {"timestamp": [3733.4, 3734.92], "text": " I'm not gonna say worth bonding over,"}, {"timestamp": [3734.92, 3737.36], "text": " but like worth healing as a group."}, {"timestamp": [3737.36, 3739.36], "text": " I think that's probably a better way of looking at it."}, {"timestamp": [3739.36, 3741.28], "text": " Okay, thanks for watching."}, {"timestamp": [3741.28, 3742.88], "text": " I hope you got a lot out of this."}, {"timestamp": [3742.88, 3744.48], "text": " Like I said, links in the description,"}, {"timestamp": [3744.48, 3747.56], "text": " and yeah, let me know what you think in the comments."}, {"timestamp": [3747.56, 3748.4], "text": " Bye."}, {"timestamp": [3743.23, 3746.15], "text": " Thanks for watching, I hope you got a lot out of this."}, {"timestamp": [3746.15, 3750.39], "text": " Like I said, links in the description and yeah, let me know what you think in the comments."}, {"timestamp": [3750.39, 3750.89], "text": " Bye."}]}