{"text": " Hey, everyone. David Shapiro here with another podcast interview. Today I'm super excited to introduce Anna Bernstein, one of the world's first professional prompt engineers. Anna is wonderful to talk to, very, very bright, and just a wonderful, charismatic person. And so without further ado, Anna, would you like to tell us a little bit about yourself, your history, how you got to where you are and what you're working on? Yeah, I am a prompt engineer at Copy AI. Kind of a strange path to get there. But I, yeah, create the prompt infrastructure at Copy.ai and it is both a building role for things we need and a bit of a mad scientist role for things that might be possible. Which is a lot of fun. And I grew up in New York, come from a very non-tech background until I started at this role. So, like I said, it's been kind of a strange path to get here, but I love it. I love prompt engineering and I love where I am in the industry. Excellent. Thanks so much. Yeah. So during our original pre-podcast talk, one of the things that you mentioned was that you always had a love of language. I don't remember exactly how you articulated it, but that you really love to zoom in and get into the weeds of language. So I was wondering if you could tell us a little bit about your background and your love of language, cause that really stood out to me. Yeah, I mean, I've always wanted to be a writer and I think I have sort of a slightly obsessive approach to language, which can be a good or a bad thing. Certainly not the best when you're trying to figure out the words to choose on a podcast. But I really like taking an analytical approach to language, but specifically to like creative language, creative writing, literary work. I think it can be really fruitful to draw down on that. And that is manifested in a couple of ways before this job. The first was, I don't know if you want me to go into this yet, sort of education stuff. Or. Yeah, please, go for it. We will jump around as it makes sense. So I was doing a minor in Arabic translation, specifically like Husa translation, which is a lot of medieval poetry as well as the Quran and the Hif. And I really loved how compact the grammar was, in a way it wasn't flowery, it was extremely efficient and extremely elaborate at the same time. And you know, a four-word sentence in Fusa could be like, you know, an eight-word sentence or much longer in English. But it was a lot of puzzle solving in regards to language and a lot of like, like a single diacritic mark could like change the entire meaning of a sentence, so you really had to be extremely precise. And at the same time, the puzzles you were unlocking weren't dry, they were like these beautiful verses, and once you got it right, once you had all the like you know, oh this is in the justive or whatever, and you like unlocked the puzzle of that verse, you were rewarded with like, oh my god that meaning is beautiful. So it was this like combination of like analytical like approach to it and like puzzle solving approach that ultimately the puzzle you were solving was a beautiful poetic meaning. And that I moved on from college thinking that would never be relevant ever to my career. But I kind of find that that's there's a parallel there to prompt engineering for sure. Yeah, that's such a wonderful story. And my fiance is a she loves Latin. And so she tells me all very similar stories about translating the Aeneid. And just it's fascinating because especially for monolinguists like myself, or monoglots, probably is the right word, we are only familiar with English. I have a bunch of different directions I want to go. But I guess first, well, actually, let's rewind. This was a really great intro. Let's rewind a minute. Tell us a little bit about how you landed this job. It started at a jazz club, right? It did. Yeah, I love going out to a jazz club when it's raining and just having a single drink by myself, and it's a wonderful ritual that I do maybe once a month and I did that, went to go check out a new place and started talking to someone there who was Wen Yuxiang who's an early person at Coffee AI and we had this moment where it was like, oh, your brain does a really similar thing to what my brain is doing. Like we just sort of got along really well and, you know, kept hanging out. And there was a moment where he was trying to figure out, this was like the second or third time we hung out, he was trying to figure out what the, I'm now forgetting the name of it, but there's a word in, there's an Indonesian word for a certain type of flavor. It's similar to umami, but it's specifically Indonesian. Now I don't remember what it is, and I would mispronounce it anyway. But basically he was like, oh, I can't think of it. Hold on. And he pulled out his phone and started doing something. This was summer of 2021. Pulled out his phone and started doing something. And I was like, what is that? And it was the playground for gp3 on his phone and he would he had like typed in stuff of like describing the flavor and then like asking what it was um and he like explained to me what he was doing and what the playground was gp3 and i and this is early so this is like da vinci just based da vinci um and i was immediately like, oh, wait, I think maybe if we just wrote the first part of the sentence instead, rather than asking the question outright, it would just like auto complete, or like, I don't know, I just like, very arrogantly immediately had a billion ideas for how to do this thing that I barely understood. And we got the flavored name, and I was kind of hooked. And, you know, a little while after that he was like, why don't you, you know, we've tried a lot of people in this role, we're not even sure if this is a role at the time. They were like, oh, you just sort of improve the examples in our K-Shots or whatever. It's more of a copywriting role. And like, but they had tried a number of people in that role. And it kind of wasn't working so they were really taking a shot in the dark with someone when you met at a jazz club um and uh i remember chris chris lieu who's one of the co-founders of copy ai when he was explaining it to me i love the way he explained it he like, it's kind of like a spell. Like, you know in Harry Potter when they say a spell slightly wrong and it like does the slightly wrong thing, but they have to like get the flick of the wrist right, and like you just have to like get the spell right, but you don't know what the, you're inventing the spell. And I was like, that's, that's, I can do that. So, um, it started there on contract freelance. And then when they saw I was adding value, they hired me. So, yeah. Wonderful. That is such a great story. That's like a perfect origin story. So, yeah, so you mentioned that you work on the prompt infrastructure for Copy AI. And obviously we want to respect any proprietary information. But since you have been there and you work on language and you have had this really analytical view and it sounds like you almost kind of had an intuitive kind of take to it. So I have a couple of directions I want to it. I have a couple directions I want to go. One, could you describe how your background, your study of Arabic or anything you might have done before then because I believe you mentioned that you did a research assistant before that as well. But then how does all of that tie into prompt engineering and obviously if they hired you full time it has worked out well. What about you, your experience, your interests has made you ideal for this role? I know I asked a bunch of questions. I will leave it up to you. Pick whichever direction you want to go first. I think it is similar to what I was saying about, you know, this sort of like analytical approach to what makes language beautiful or what makes language compelling, thinking about the like specifics of when you look at the language itself, but also like the audience's interaction with language that makes it compelling. But I can't say it was necessarily all of my, I mean, I had a wonderful education in New York and then had a great two years of education at Macalester in Minnesota and then dropped out because of health issues. I couldn't get to class every day. I went back to New York and I couldn't get to class every day. I went back to New York and worked partly as a copywriter, but as you mentioned, partly as a research assistant, mainly for historical and biographical projects. I worked on a book called Women Who Made New York with Julie Scalfo, where I got to research a lot of different women, and that was really wonderful and fascinating, digging up the exact right fact about someone that sort of unlocked their whole narrative. Which I guess, as I say that, that sort of fits with this theme that I'm realizing of this sort of slight obsessiveness and finding just the right thing for a narrative or creative purpose. I also write poetry, which the other day I was at a party my friend was like, here is poetess Anna Berenstein! I was like, never introduce me that way again. But I have some poetry in journals and short stories. But writing poetry is, for me, it's a process, but it's also one that involves seeing many different approaches at the same time and keeping them in mind and often like mentally not throwing them away in case you go down one route and it doesn't work and you have to back up and go down a different route and often it's also a process of choosing when to go with your first thought and when to go with your like 246th thought. It's rarely like your fifth thought, I find, personally, but I think like that sort of thinking of like what's the most intuitive thing to do here balanced with like what's an unintuitive thing to do here that I haven't maybe thought of yet that would be a better way of approaching this I think is helpful along with obviously the editing process of poetry is so like granular and like you have to and even short stories like there's this you know tip of like if you find yourself taking in and or taking out and putting in the same comma over and over again your story is probably done otherwise it's probably not. So it's it's yeah it kind of all ties together in a way especially because when you're writing you're trying to write for yourself but also write for your audience and you're trying to think of how you're writing interacts with another brain or a potential other brain or potentially many other brains but you're also trying not to think about that as much but it's but you you have to be thinking about that and with the with prompt engineering there's this balance of treating the AI as human in a weird way where you're like, what, how would a human do this? What parts of the human thought process am I missing when I analyze this task? Like what is missing from this task in this sort of undercurrent of it that isn't being provided to the AI? And sometimes that's better with like treating it as more human, but then there are also ways where you're like, I am treating it as too human and I need to back up and think of the specific limitations and the specific powers that it has and that each different model has. So that was very rambling. I'm sorry. Well, I have good news. I was able to follow it, but I think that there's, I mean, gosh, there's so much that I agree with you on, because I've been slightly obsessed myself with language models. You mentioned a few things a couple of times that I want to unpack a little bit. One was audience. You've mentioned audience a couple of times. Thinking about the language model as your potential audience, maybe it helps to think about it as human or not, depending on. There is that aspect. But you have also talked about how you tend to think through the undercurrents of what is and is not present in the language that you are feeding the model or the prompt engineering. One thing that really stood out to me, the thing that most stood out to me as you were sharing that was the process of writing poetry. You said that sometimes there is the intuitive path, there's the unintuitive path, sometimes you pay attention to the first thing and sometimes it's the 200th thing. And that sounds kind of like prompt engineering in some respects. And so what I wanted to do was explore this idea that creative writing or poetry in particular, which is a very specific use of language, how your mental approaches to this, how that might have played into your abilities as a prompt engineer, what your observations are, and then finally, you know, editing, if that kind of figures into it as a skill. I want to think about these things as skills that have been developed or intuitions that have been developed. So what are your associations there with poetry and audience? Yeah, I think choosing the exact right word is, in order to elicit the right reaction, is extremely important. And I actually don't even know which one I'm talking about when I say that because I mean it for both. And elicit the right reaction, although means very different things for both of those. You're almost trying to, by finding the exact right word in the prompt, like almost task locate for the right reaction from the AI. And I think people underutilize word choice in their prompts. They sort of rely on approach, which it's good to take a variety of approaches. That's also very good. But sometimes I find that an approach I want to take doesn't work on the first try or like the 10th try with the wording I'm trying, like sometimes it is really helpful, like you can make this crazy approach that you thought just, you know, wasn't viable work when you like really hit the right like vocabulary for it. Um, like there's a specific, I won't go into too much detail, but there's a specific approach that way that I was like, oh it it doesn't work it doesn't work and like no matter the synonyms I try and then I get on this phrase thoroughly and faithfully and that like unlocked the whole thing um and the same thing can happen with poetry I mean instead of the right generation happening what you're looking for is that like pick in the chest when you read it which is a bit more ephemeral and whatever but but you know for me does feel in some ways like a binary when I read poetry like either that happens for me or it doesn't. So yeah I think a lot of it comes back to language as act and you know language as speech act and that kind of thing and this is like a very like prompt engineering is a very literal like concrete example of like language as like a speech act like a like a piece of speech that by being spoken enacts something um so i think they both belong to that category. That's maybe a little more like, I don't know, maybe we're looking for something a little more practical. I think word choice and I think in poetry something that's also underutilized is variety of approach when it comes to like, I know I need to use that more when it's when something's not working, I've gone down a pathway for a while to go back and think about the whole approach of the poem rather than line by line necessarily or the wording of lines. That does happen with prompt engineering as well where you realize you have overengineered something and the approach just isn't working and you need to like take a step back from it. So there's a lot of parallels there. Absolutely. One of the cardinal rules that I have learned is more often than not less is more. Sometimes if you are really struggling with a prompt, just simplify it and see what happens. So one of the another phrase that you have used kind of differently when you were describing like working through or getting the right effect from creative writing and you use this word again or this pair of words for getting the prompt, getting the machine to do what you want it to do is locking versus unlocking. Trying to unlock whether it is a particular response from a person, from a reader or trying to get that feeling for yourself or then of course getting the performance from the machine. So that is a very particular choice of words and it resonates with me, but I wanted to ask you, what do you mean when you use that, I don't know if it's an analogy, but the adjectives of locked versus unlocked. It's almost like you're trying to pull something out of the machine, right? Just like you're trying to pull something out of a reader or yourself. Yeah, yeah, it's similar to that. You know that the thing you're trying to say, the emotion is almost a strange word for it, it's a bit wrong, but the emotion you're trying to get at is somewhere within yourself also, I mean, you're your primary reader as you're writing poetry, so you're trying to like create that feeling for yourself too. And you know it's somewhere in the big jumble of all the words that could ever exist and you're trying to find the right ones in order to, yeah, unlock it or it would be like find it. And when you're working with AI, you're working with sort of a toddler that knows everything but also when you're writing poetry you're like thinking about how you're writing for like everyone and not everyone in the world but like you're not writing typically for one person you're writing for like an audience of brains so it's actually not that dissimilar in a weird way where you're like this is it doesn't have to like unlock or task locate or however you want to put it that response in every single person as long as it like task locates for it in the people for whom that emotion exists in that or like that particular connection exists of experience um or of enjoying your poetry or whatever that sentence got the hell away from me, but yeah, it's it's the the more I Like think about parallels the more it does come back like ask location of emotion for poetry Which is kind of strange I hadn't thought about it that way before. Excellent. Excellent. Yeah, so you mentioned task locating a few times. And my fianc\u00e9 is a librarian by training, and so she's shared that term with me. But from your perspective, could you share with our audience what it is that you mean by task locating as it pertains to prompt engineering, you know, with large language models, but also with human audiences. And, you know, you've talked a lot about audience and alluded to like theory of mind. Like you model what's going on in the mind of either the machine or your audience of one, your audience of yourself or audience of many, many brains. So talk to us a little bit about task locating. What is that? Task locating is essentially tricking the AI. No, it's finding for if what you want it to generate typically exists within a specific context, it's recreating that context for it so that it is more likely to generate the thing you want. You know, like if you wanted to generate a name, and for whatever reason you weren't just doing this in a simpler way, you could be like, you know, paper, like paper title by, and then it would generate a name, even though you haven't told it to generate a name. So that's like a very simple, like example of task location. But the idea of it crops up in a lot of other ways, you can sort of like, a lot of it gets fuzzy with also sort of like priming the model in different ways. And it also intersects, I think, with like, I'm not totally sure what the industry term is for this right now, but things tend to change around, but like irregular K-Shots, where the example is actually with different tasks. But even with regular K, you are kind of task-locating for like, you know, here's this example, here's this example, here's this example, here's this example. You're like trying to convince it that somewhere within it exists a list of the perfect examples that you need. So yeah, I guess there's like concrete task location of like things that actually exist in its corpus. And then there's a bit of deceptive task location for things that you're trying to tell it exist in its corpus. But a common way to sort of task locate a prime is through author voice. You see it all the time. You are a sentient AI that is really good at stuff. That is a form of task location in my opinion. The author voice thing. Yeah, in one of my books I called that agent model. You tell it this is what you are and this is what you are capable of and it is able to step into those shoes and say this is what I am. How did you say it? You said kind of tricking the AI or getting it to confabulate into this latent space that it has got. That's wonderful. I'm glad to know that another human thinks about this the way that I do. It's very reassuring. Because I've tried to explain some of this to folks and some people don't get it. Because one thing that I have found is that computer science people sometimes think of it as a machine learning model first, but you and I, we seem to think of it as a language instrument first. I don't want to put words in your mouth. Do you agree with that? Do you think of this as primarily, what did you call it earlier? A speech act, right? Do you think of it as a machine or do you think of it otherwise? I definitely still think of it as a machine. You know, it's, there have been concepts over the past however long it's been, a year and a half, however long, where I've learned more about the sort of like, not even broad concepts of machine learning, because a lot of them are specific, but sort of from a non-technical, like this lever does this, it works this way, and that helps, I find, a lot in explaining a lot of its behavior. But then there are also things I end up explaining to people who make the, where it's like, well, it acts this way, and I think it's because of this or like have you noticed this behavior where it is like inevitably getting away from them a little bit like you can't predict all of its behavior via the technical side of machine learning that's almost the points of it so it is like I mean it's a sign that the technical side of it has been very successful that we are now like thinking of it in a non-technical way. Yeah, that makes total sense. Especially kind of the way that you just articulated that at the end, it is a sign of success that it's gotten away from strictly the engineering side or the scientific or technical side by virtue of the fact that it is working because it is not explicitly maybe deterministic or fully mechanistic. So what I wanted to explore a little bit more on this line of reasoning or thinking was how does so you said that you do think of it kind of as a machine and you try and observe its behaviors and establish reasons for the behaviors or at least explanations, a model for the behaviors or at least explanations, a model for the behavior. But how does language overlay or intersect with that? Because at the beginning of the conversation, you mentioned all kinds of aspects of language, Arabic language, diacritics and grammar and everything. So based on your use of large language models, how much do aspects of language, such as you mentioned, vocabulary, word choice, different approaches. But what about grammar and syntax and other aspects of language? How do you perceive those as having been woven into the machine, so to speak? I'm not totally sure I understand the question. I'm sorry. That's fine. I probably didn't ask that well. Okay. So, asking it another way, here, let's do some human prompt engineering. So, the prompt that I just gave you didn't work. So, let me try a different prompt. So So word choice is very important for prompt engineering, right? How important is grammar or syntax? Oh, I see. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, your the way you choose to phrase something, the style of syntax you use can also like can indicate a level of sophistication of writing versus the simplicity of writing and maybe you want that simplicity of writing, you want direct, you know, simple cause and effect informational writing for your readers, or maybe you want it to be a bit more human sounding or literary, and that the style of, I find like, rhythm, especially with example following models, the style of the rhythm of the sentence, and having a you know, a classic sort of writing rule, having like a variety of rhythms in your sentences, variety of number of clauses in your sentences, tends to make its writing, I find, more sophisticated. There are also, you know, things like creating links, when you want it to do a task, like creating links via the verbs you use, where you can use causative verbs rather than linking things with, like, just, like, being like, you have a bunch of briefs and a bunch of these things. Or like a bunch of briefs and a bunch of pieces of content. You can actually link those causatively, rather than just kind of putting them near each other in the sentence. There's also, like, this isn't quite great, but when it comes to word choice, there's like approaches where sometimes referring to something in different places with synonyms, if you can refer to it multiple times throughout the prompt, like referring to it with synonyms each time can help the model sort of triangulate on what it is. But if you're using that section as sort of a tool for another section, you want it to refer back to that section, you really need parity between what you label it and what you call it in the sentence. You can't approximate it the way you would with a human being, necessarily. Or it won't work as well. So structurally, there's a lot of stuff. There's also the whole approach, I'm sure, of you can put things in the future tense, the present tense, the past tense. You can say you have already written this. Explain to me how you did it. You can do a lot of weird stuff with, yeah, just with tense especially I find that can really switch up abilities. Yeah, absolutely. Especially by making those positive assertions, it just kind of rolls with it and says, okay, sure, you told me this thing is true, so I'll just assume that that's true. Or at least that seems to be how it interprets that. One thing that you said earlier that I wanted to unpack before we take a brief break and then come back to change gears was you said that this kind of AI is like a toddler that knows everything. And I thought that that was very illustrative. But I like that. And I was wondering if you could unpack how you came to that understanding of large language models. I mean, it's a little trite. It's not like totally true, but it's like, you know, it's close enough. It's how I describe it at parties when I'm trying to describe my job. But yeah, it's, I mean, it has a huge wealth of knowledge and also often not a lot of common sense, although obviously that's getting better all the time. But it doesn't have common sense the way a human being has common sense, where when we're in an interaction with another person, we are thinking... There's like a tent we put over... This is going to be confusing, there's a tent we put over the interaction, I feel like, of like the other person's intent, what they want out of the conversation, like, especially if we're like trying to do something for them, obviously, it's like, what is the goal? And it doesn't always, goal. And it doesn't always... sometimes it doesn't have the tent over what it's doing, and sometimes it puts the tent up over here, or like, just, or it's upside down, or like, whatever, it's not always as good at that as a human being is. Where you're like, you kind of did this, you did what you thought you were doing well, but a human being would understand that that's not, and that's what I, like, when I'm editing other people's prompts, so much of what I'm doing is going back into the prompt and going, this, you didn't even say, like, what you thought, like, what, like, you're telling me out loud what you want, and that's not what you told the AI, you it to do something totally different and it's like or something like a little bit off and it's taking you very literally and doing that thing rather than doing what a human would do and like understanding the overall task um and that reminds me of being a child i didn't know what was going on i i definitely remember i probably still have moments like that, but that definitely reminds me of, you know, being, yeah, literally being a toddler and like not understanding often the dynamics of situations I was in. Except I didn't have like all the details of the War of 1812 or whatever in my brain. Yeah, absolutely. That's such a great way to elucidate that. Okay, so we're going to take a quick break. Obviously for the audience it will be instantaneous, but we'll be right back. And we will change focus on to a little bit other aspects of language and language models and where AI is going. So we will be back in just a moment. Hey, everybody. And we are back from our short break. So I wanted to change gears for the last section of this episode. As the audience may or may not know, one of the key things that I want to do with this podcast is to demystify AI for 2023 and for the world because things are changing so incredibly quickly and that's why I'm having these interviews with people who are at the cutting edge or who have past experience to draw from in order to help provide guidance and kind of shine some light on the situation for the rest of us. So Anna, I wanted to ask you, where do you see AI going? Particularly how are things going to change in 2023? What are your thoughts on kind of the state of things and where it's going in change in 2023? What are your thoughts on the state of things and where it is going in the immediate future? Pretty difficult question to answer. I think as we see the writing quality itself of current LLMs improve and get more human, there will probably be kind of a parallel debate about, like, people, right now the debate for writing is like, will students generate essays with the AI? And I think as the writing quality gets better and better it'll move into will people win writing competitions using bits and pieces maybe not hold up but like from the AI it's parallel to the debate that's going on with like visual art and AI visual art and I think, I hope that that'll sort of even itself out. People will realize that that's kind of like how 3D printing didn't kill sculpture. It's, and I hope people embrace it as a tool. I think maybe that won't happen in 2023 but I do think that'll happen you know as just rather than thinking of it as competition thinking of it as like an augmentation like another brain to think with but not a replacement for your brain and I I mean I also think the nature of like search going to change, the nature of finding information is going to change as we get things like chat GPT which are reliable conversational returners of information that in a way have a better idea of the tent that I was talking about earlier. I don't know why I keep saying the tent, and that's so close to the word intent, which is really just what I mean. But your overall intent, Google has poured so much into intent of search, and when you make it conversational and make it an AI like chat GPT that it's able to do it really well so I think that's going to change I know I've already used it that way I was bored with the deli sandwiches I was ordering my usual roster and whenever I searched a new type of deli sandwich or like deli sandwich best deli say whatever I tried to search, it was like, here's some great deli sandwiches to make at home. And I was like, that's not helpful. And it's not, like, I need like a, for like a New York deli, like, what's a good combination? And I used chat GPT for it. And it gave me a slightly weird, but pretty good sandwich. I don't remember what was in it, but it was pretty delicious. Anyway, so. My point is I think the nature of search is going to change and I hope that the nature or how people think about like creative augmentations change. That is a phenomenal view and I am right there with you in terms of one, just hoping for people to embrace it and thinking of it as an augmentation, not a replacement, something that helps make our lives better, easier, whatever. That's a great idea using it for coming up with a better sandwich. I haven't used it for that yet. I have used it to help with my own writing and drafting and those sorts of tasks. So you pointed out that 3D printing didn't kill sculpture. Hopefully things like Dolly and mid journey and stable diffusion don't kill graphic art. I don't think it is going to. But certainly there is a lot of consternation over those boundaries right now. I think that is kind of probably the more diplomatic way of saying it. Certainly there is a lot of pain on both sides. There is AI artists who are relieved that they are finally able to express themselves with the help of these tools and there are other artists that are also kind of facing pain because they feel like something is being taken away from them. And certainly there is huge disruption. And I really empathize with people on both sides. I have had YouTube comments from people on both sides just expressing like, yeah, this kind of sucks. So with that, I wanted to ask a little bit more, you know, what are you worried about? You mentioned certainly like New York City banned chat GPT in schools. So is there anything else that you are worried about? And then beyond that, what I'm worried about. When it comes to the writing side of it, I'm worried about, you know, there is an educational element to crafting an essay about a topic. You learn the topic much better. It sort of doesn't matter. The point of crafting the essay is not for the essay to get published somewhere and read by other people when you're in school. So when the function of it is that you become more educated by crafting the piece of writing, painstakingly on your own, and students are replacing that with generating it with an AI, they're losing an educational element, and that's concerning to me, for sure. In terms of like, the flip side of that, I think I'm excited to continue, or for the creative side of language models to continue to develop. A huge part of my job at Copy.ai is that we offer like a creative, more creative generation than you might find from like chat GPT or whatever and more of a variety of approach if you don't like the first generation you can regenerate and get something different. That's like a big part of what we offer um and yeah creativity of approach, variety of approach, creativity, and human sounding language, even if it's maybe a little bit less precise. And I really just want to like keep exploring that, keep seeing that in other places, and I really want people, I mean I touched on this before, but I really want the writing world to like embrace this as a really powerful tool that's because the the ultimate goal of your writing you haven't come up with it any less in a way like you're still putting this writing in front of if it's beautiful writing it's beautiful writing and the purpose of it is the response of the audience and whether or not the beauty of it was like partly generated outside the idea for it was partly generated using an old like brain augmentation that you're controlling or like your own brain like you crafted it and it's beautiful and it's eliciting that response in readers and it's eliciting that response in readers because of their human experience. So I don't think there's, you know, I'm debating whether I can share something that happened with an open AI model, but I don't think I can. Oh man, I'll come back to it at some point. Someday I'll share that story. But I'm really excited for that side of AI to kind of blossom. Excellent. Yeah, and obviously, if there's something that you're not comfortable sharing, no big deal. I think I'm just going to. That's fine. That's fine. Yeah, so as a creative myself, I kind of split two worlds. I'm on the research side and the creative side. I definitely feel you there on like let's embrace it. And while you were speaking, something occurred to me. Like if as a novelist, if I take my novel to a critique group and I get ideas from a critique group and then I take it to an editor, it is not a product of strictly my own brain. Same with these tools. I am not saying that, okay, an editor is equivalent to getting help from chat GPT or even having a ghost writer, right, because it's still a human. But one thing that you focused on was if it elicits the right response from the receiver of that art, is that like, you know, that's part of the goal. And we don't have to unpack that unless there's any points that you wanted to dive deeper in before we move on to kind of the last section of the of the podcast. Yeah I think just one thing quickly is that for something like visual art there's a worry there about I think loss of craft like art versus craft and like but the craft side of art where people people aren't debating, or people aren't, but there's this kind of like, well yeah, you came up with the idea for it and whatever, but like, that's only part of it, part of it is like the crafting of the object and the skill that goes into that and the artistic sensibility that goes into using that skill. And I can't comment on that because I'm not a visual artist, but I do think that's a very fair debate to have. When it comes to writing, the divide between craft and art is always more nebulous because there isn't a craft aspect to it. Writing is very strange. Sometimes when I'm asked to read poetry at a poetry reading sometimes it feels like I'm getting up on stage and being like look how good I can walk and then like walking back and forth because it's like something that most of us can do and I'm like I can do this even better and like I can do it in a way that means something and I'm like just reading words off a page that I wrote. So that divide has always been a bit more nebulous and I think that's part of what makes people nervous about this is there's like but also why I think when it comes to augmenting creativity, when it comes to language, I actually think it there to me there's less of a gray area there. I don't feel as like conflicted about it because, you know, you are not losing like craft. It's like just a new tool for something that already was like not quite literal craft anyway. That makes sense. And you know, it's not a perfect analogy but the computer didn't destroy education. Even though it makes some things easier, some things are a little more convoluted. And yeah, I do hope that we can adapt to these tools and think of them as just more tools, extension of the art. So I wanted to the final few questions that I had for you, the first one is, what do you personally want to achieve? Like you mentioned at the beginning of the episode that, or maybe it was just before we started, but you said like, you never would have thought that you'd be a prompt engineer. So how has AI changed your life and your direction and your career and what do you want to personally achieve in the coming year or two or three? Well, I'd love to extend this career and keep doing this. I'd love to be one of many people, but be on the forefront of steering where these models are going and what they're capable of through prompt engineering and prompt optimization and prompt training and stuff. And I think some people see the ability of the AI is this and it's ramping up and prompt engineering is like this, where as we get closer to it like you know this like prompt engineering is needed less and less and I see it a lot more like that. So I'm excited to see like if prompt engineering is capable of what it's capable of right now what will it be capable of 10 years from now and I really want to be part of that future. I'm not totally sure what that looks like from a career standpoint. I'll get back to you on that. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, we could no more predict Dolly 2 and then chat GPT than we could anything else. So who knows what's going to change within the next 12 months. But yeah, like you, I also want to just stay part of it because whatever is going on, it's really cool and it also feels really important. So, who do you want to get connected with? Is there anyone that you would like to reach out to you on LinkedIn or Twitter or however you want to engage with the world. Is there anyone that you want to invite into your professional life or into your sphere? Um, come on, come all. I don't know. No, I, you know, I'm interested in connecting with, sort of in the same way that copy I was like unsure whether this was a role that would add value I'm interested in like thinking about what are other you know industries where they don't realize this could add value so if you're like unsure I'd love to like discuss that with you if you are one of the other few prompt engineers out there a few of you we've connected on LinkedIn but like I feel like it's you know like we're there a handful of us and I would love to get connected with anyone else who whether that's your official title or not if it's something you do professionally I would love to talk to you. And then you know also if you're someone who's interested in getting into it, especially if you come from a non-tech background, but you think it sounds like something that makes sense for you, you have a kind of like, I've said this word a bunch now at this point, but like, an obsessiveness is kind of important, and like, really loving language is important. And more just like loving like semantics and like, approach to this thing is important. And more just like loving semantics and like approach to this thing is important. So if you're interested in that and if you're interested in AI from like literary or like writing quality standpoint, I'd love to get in touch. Wonderful, wonderful, excellent. And a quick follow-up question, where is best for people to connect with you, on LinkedIn, Twitter? Probably on LinkedIn, yeah. Okay. If people are interested, I also have, I know, I have a few friends who would like yell at me if I didn't share this, so I also have my my website which has my writing on it that's been published. It's poetry and short story so it's not totally relevant. But that's just my name.com. But if you want to get in touch about prompt engineering, definitely my LinkedIn would be better. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect, perfect and I always like to wrap up these episodes by just asking my guests, what are the words of wisdom that you want to put out into the world? Just any final words, what is it that you would like the world to know or to hear or to think about? There's something formulating, but it's not quite coming. It's something about how like creativity, we don't have to forfeit the realm of creativity as like a particularly human realm just because we've created a new tool that helps us with it. I don't know if that makes sense. That's really beautiful. Yeah, no, that's really beautiful. And so we'll leave it at that. We do not have to forfeit the realm of creativity just because we have created a tool. So, thank you so much for. Thank you so much for your time, Anna. And I of course wish you well. And as always, I really enjoyed having this time to speak with you. And thanks everyone for watching. And check back in and be good. time to speak with you. And thanks everyone for watching and check back in and be good.", "chunks": [{"timestamp": [4.96, 10.88], "text": " Hey, everyone. David Shapiro here with another podcast interview. Today I'm super excited to"}, {"timestamp": [10.88, 16.72], "text": " introduce Anna Bernstein, one of the world's first professional prompt engineers. Anna is"}, {"timestamp": [16.72, 27.12], "text": " wonderful to talk to, very, very bright, and just a wonderful, charismatic person. And so without further ado, Anna, would you like to"}, {"timestamp": [27.12, 31.2], "text": " tell us a little bit about yourself, your history, how you got to where you are and"}, {"timestamp": [31.2, 50.4], "text": " what you're working on? Yeah, I am a prompt engineer at Copy AI. Kind of a strange path to get there. But I, yeah, create the prompt infrastructure at Copy.ai"}, {"timestamp": [50.4, 57.44], "text": " and it is both a building role for things we need and a bit of a mad scientist role for"}, {"timestamp": [57.44, 69.28], "text": " things that might be possible. Which is a lot of fun. And I grew up in New York, come from a very non-tech background until I started at this"}, {"timestamp": [69.28, 70.28], "text": " role."}, {"timestamp": [70.28, 77.36], "text": " So, like I said, it's been kind of a strange path to get here, but I love it."}, {"timestamp": [77.36, 82.36], "text": " I love prompt engineering and I love where I am in the industry."}, {"timestamp": [82.36, 83.36], "text": " Excellent."}, {"timestamp": [83.36, 90.04], "text": " Thanks so much. Yeah. So during our original pre-podcast talk,"}, {"timestamp": [90.04, 94.72], "text": " one of the things that you mentioned was that you always had a love of language."}, {"timestamp": [94.72, 97.86], "text": " I don't remember exactly how you articulated it,"}, {"timestamp": [97.86, 102.94], "text": " but that you really love to zoom in and get into the weeds of language."}, {"timestamp": [102.94, 105.12], "text": " So I was wondering if you could tell us a little bit"}, {"timestamp": [105.12, 108.64], "text": " about your background and your love of language,"}, {"timestamp": [108.64, 110.34], "text": " cause that really stood out to me."}, {"timestamp": [111.28, 114.44], "text": " Yeah, I mean, I've always wanted to be a writer"}, {"timestamp": [115.8, 120.8], "text": " and I think I have sort of a slightly obsessive approach"}, {"timestamp": [122.12, 126.16], "text": " to language, which can be a good or a bad thing."}, {"timestamp": [127.36, 131.44], "text": " Certainly not the best when you're trying to figure out the words to choose on a podcast."}, {"timestamp": [132.96, 138.96], "text": " But I really like taking an analytical approach to language, but specifically to like creative"}, {"timestamp": [138.96, 150.2], "text": " language, creative writing, literary work. I think it can be really fruitful to draw down on that."}, {"timestamp": [150.2, 154.04], "text": " And that is manifested in a couple of ways before this job."}, {"timestamp": [154.04, 160.52], "text": " The first was, I don't know if you want me to go into this yet, sort of education stuff."}, {"timestamp": [160.52, 161.52], "text": " Or."}, {"timestamp": [161.52, 163.48], "text": " Yeah, please, go for it."}, {"timestamp": [163.48, 166.64], "text": " We will jump around as it makes sense."}, {"timestamp": [166.64, 177.16], "text": " So I was doing a minor in Arabic translation, specifically like Husa translation, which"}, {"timestamp": [177.16, 181.96], "text": " is a lot of medieval poetry as well as the Quran and the Hif."}, {"timestamp": [181.96, 188.96], "text": " And I really loved how compact the grammar was, in a way it wasn't"}, {"timestamp": [188.96, 196.0], "text": " flowery, it was extremely efficient and extremely elaborate at the same time. And you know,"}, {"timestamp": [196.0, 201.92], "text": " a four-word sentence in Fusa could be like, you know, an eight-word sentence or much longer"}, {"timestamp": [201.92, 207.56], "text": " in English. But it was a lot of puzzle solving in regards to"}, {"timestamp": [207.56, 212.56], "text": " language and a lot of like, like a single diacritic mark could like change the entire"}, {"timestamp": [212.56, 217.68], "text": " meaning of a sentence, so you really had to be extremely precise. And at the same time,"}, {"timestamp": [217.68, 223.12], "text": " the puzzles you were unlocking weren't dry, they were like these beautiful verses, and"}, {"timestamp": [223.12, 225.12], "text": " once you got it right, once you had"}, {"timestamp": [225.12, 229.08], "text": " all the like you know, oh this is in the justive or whatever, and you like"}, {"timestamp": [229.08, 233.52], "text": " unlocked the puzzle of that verse, you were rewarded with like, oh my god that"}, {"timestamp": [233.52, 239.58], "text": " meaning is beautiful. So it was this like combination of like analytical like"}, {"timestamp": [239.58, 247.92], "text": " approach to it and like puzzle solving approach that ultimately the puzzle you were solving was a beautiful"}, {"timestamp": [247.92, 250.76], "text": " poetic meaning."}, {"timestamp": [250.76, 260.36], "text": " And that I moved on from college thinking that would never be relevant ever to my career."}, {"timestamp": [260.36, 265.6], "text": " But I kind of find that that's there's a parallel there to prompt engineering for sure."}, {"timestamp": [267.6, 274.56], "text": " Yeah, that's such a wonderful story. And my fiance is a she loves Latin. And so she"}, {"timestamp": [274.56, 282.56], "text": " tells me all very similar stories about translating the Aeneid. And just it's fascinating because"}, {"timestamp": [283.44, 288.0], "text": " especially for monolinguists like myself, or monoglots,"}, {"timestamp": [288.0, 294.08], "text": " probably is the right word, we are only familiar with English. I have a bunch of different"}, {"timestamp": [294.08, 302.8], "text": " directions I want to go. But I guess first, well, actually, let's rewind. This was a really great"}, {"timestamp": [302.8, 309.0], "text": " intro. Let's rewind a minute. Tell us a little bit about how you landed this job."}, {"timestamp": [309.0, 311.68], "text": " It started at a jazz club, right?"}, {"timestamp": [311.68, 313.6], "text": " It did."}, {"timestamp": [313.6, 321.2], "text": " Yeah, I love going out to a jazz club when it's raining and just having a single drink"}, {"timestamp": [321.2, 325.76], "text": " by myself, and it's a wonderful ritual that I do maybe once a month"}, {"timestamp": [325.76, 334.08], "text": " and I did that, went to go check out a new place and started talking to someone there"}, {"timestamp": [334.96, 349.8], "text": " who was Wen Yuxiang who's an early person at Coffee AI and we had this moment where it was like, oh, your brain does"}, {"timestamp": [349.8, 353.2], "text": " a really similar thing to what my brain is doing."}, {"timestamp": [353.2, 359.28], "text": " Like we just sort of got along really well and, you know, kept hanging out."}, {"timestamp": [359.28, 366.4], "text": " And there was a moment where he was trying to figure out, this was like the second or third time we"}, {"timestamp": [366.4, 371.88], "text": " hung out, he was trying to figure out what the, I'm now forgetting the name of it, but"}, {"timestamp": [371.88, 377.96], "text": " there's a word in, there's an Indonesian word for a certain type of flavor."}, {"timestamp": [377.96, 381.28], "text": " It's similar to umami, but it's specifically Indonesian."}, {"timestamp": [381.28, 384.56], "text": " Now I don't remember what it is, and I would mispronounce it anyway."}, {"timestamp": [384.56, 390.48], "text": " But basically he was like, oh, I can't think of it. Hold on. And he pulled out his phone"}, {"timestamp": [390.48, 396.88], "text": " and started doing something. This was summer of 2021. Pulled out his phone and started"}, {"timestamp": [396.88, 406.56], "text": " doing something. And I was like, what is that? And it was the playground for gp3 on his phone and he would he had like typed in stuff of like"}, {"timestamp": [406.56, 414.24], "text": " describing the flavor and then like asking what it was um and he like explained to me what he"}, {"timestamp": [414.24, 420.72], "text": " was doing and what the playground was gp3 and i and this is early so this is like da vinci"}, {"timestamp": [420.72, 425.74], "text": " just based da vinci um and i was immediately like, oh, wait, I think maybe"}, {"timestamp": [425.74, 432.16], "text": " if we just wrote the first part of the sentence instead, rather than asking the question outright,"}, {"timestamp": [432.16, 436.0], "text": " it would just like auto complete, or like, I don't know, I just like, very arrogantly"}, {"timestamp": [436.0, 441.32], "text": " immediately had a billion ideas for how to do this thing that I barely understood. And"}, {"timestamp": [441.32, 445.0], "text": " we got the flavored name, and I was kind of hooked."}, {"timestamp": [445.0, 448.0], "text": " And, you know, a little while after that he was like,"}, {"timestamp": [448.0, 451.0], "text": " why don't you, you know, we've tried a lot of people in this role,"}, {"timestamp": [451.0, 453.0], "text": " we're not even sure if this is a role at the time."}, {"timestamp": [453.0, 458.0], "text": " They were like, oh, you just sort of improve the examples in our K-Shots or whatever."}, {"timestamp": [458.0, 460.0], "text": " It's more of a copywriting role."}, {"timestamp": [460.0, 464.0], "text": " And like, but they had tried a number of people in that role."}, {"timestamp": [464.0, 467.76], "text": " And it kind of wasn't"}, {"timestamp": [467.76, 472.32], "text": " working so they were really taking a shot in the dark with someone when you met at a jazz club"}, {"timestamp": [473.6, 481.84], "text": " um and uh i remember chris chris lieu who's one of the co-founders of copy ai when he was explaining"}, {"timestamp": [481.84, 489.52], "text": " it to me i love the way he explained it he like, it's kind of like a spell. Like, you know in Harry Potter when they say a spell slightly wrong and it"}, {"timestamp": [489.52, 493.6], "text": " like does the slightly wrong thing, but they have to like get the flick of the wrist right, and like"}, {"timestamp": [493.6, 497.6], "text": " you just have to like get the spell right, but you don't know what the, you're inventing the spell."}, {"timestamp": [498.32, 505.0], "text": " And I was like, that's, that's, I can do that. So, um, it started there on contract freelance."}, {"timestamp": [505.0, 509.0], "text": " And then when they saw I was adding value, they hired me."}, {"timestamp": [509.0, 511.0], "text": " So, yeah."}, {"timestamp": [511.0, 513.0], "text": " Wonderful."}, {"timestamp": [513.0, 515.0], "text": " That is such a great story."}, {"timestamp": [515.0, 517.0], "text": " That's like a perfect origin story."}, {"timestamp": [517.0, 523.0], "text": " So, yeah, so you mentioned that you work on the prompt infrastructure for Copy AI."}, {"timestamp": [523.0, 526.64], "text": " And obviously we want to respect any"}, {"timestamp": [526.64, 528.64], "text": " proprietary information."}, {"timestamp": [528.64, 534.76], "text": " But since you have been there and you work on language and you have had this really analytical"}, {"timestamp": [534.76, 541.4], "text": " view and it sounds like you almost kind of had an intuitive kind of take to it."}, {"timestamp": [541.4, 549.52], "text": " So I have a couple of directions I want to it. I have a couple directions I want to go. One, could you describe how your background,"}, {"timestamp": [549.52, 554.88], "text": " your study of Arabic or anything you might have done before then because I believe you mentioned"}, {"timestamp": [554.88, 562.0], "text": " that you did a research assistant before that as well. But then how does all of that tie into"}, {"timestamp": [562.64, 566.8], "text": " prompt engineering and obviously if they hired you full time it has worked out"}, {"timestamp": [566.8, 574.64], "text": " well. What about you, your experience, your interests has made you ideal for this role?"}, {"timestamp": [574.64, 578.48], "text": " I know I asked a bunch of questions. I will leave it up to you. Pick whichever direction you want to"}, {"timestamp": [578.48, 588.48], "text": " go first. I think it is similar to what I was saying about, you know, this sort of like analytical approach to what makes language beautiful or what makes language compelling,"}, {"timestamp": [588.48, 592.96], "text": " thinking about the like specifics of when you look at the language itself, but also like"}, {"timestamp": [594.08, 607.76], "text": " the audience's interaction with language that makes it compelling. But I can't say it was necessarily all of my, I mean, I had a wonderful education in New York"}, {"timestamp": [609.68, 616.72], "text": " and then had a great two years of education at Macalester in Minnesota and then dropped out"}, {"timestamp": [617.68, 623.28], "text": " because of health issues. I couldn't get to class every day. I went back to New York and"}, {"timestamp": [622.2, 625.88], "text": " I couldn't get to class every day. I went back to New York and worked partly as a copywriter,"}, {"timestamp": [625.88, 630.04], "text": " but as you mentioned, partly as a research assistant,"}, {"timestamp": [630.04, 632.84], "text": " mainly for historical and biographical projects."}, {"timestamp": [634.16, 636.36], "text": " I worked on a book called Women Who Made New York"}, {"timestamp": [636.36, 639.6], "text": " with Julie Scalfo, where I got to research"}, {"timestamp": [639.6, 641.28], "text": " a lot of different women,"}, {"timestamp": [641.28, 644.8], "text": " and that was really wonderful and fascinating,"}, {"timestamp": [644.8, 649.28], "text": " digging up the exact right fact about someone that sort of unlocked their whole narrative."}, {"timestamp": [649.28, 651.26], "text": " Which I guess, as I say that,"}, {"timestamp": [651.26, 654.16], "text": " that sort of fits with this theme that I'm realizing of"}, {"timestamp": [654.16, 660.12], "text": " this sort of slight obsessiveness and finding just the right thing"}, {"timestamp": [660.12, 673.28], "text": " for a narrative or creative purpose. I also write poetry, which the other day I was at a party"}, {"timestamp": [673.28, 677.92], "text": " my friend was like, here is poetess Anna Berenstein! I was like, never introduce me that way again."}, {"timestamp": [688.36, 699.84], "text": " But I have some poetry in journals and short stories. But writing poetry is, for me, it's a process, but it's also one that involves seeing many"}, {"timestamp": [699.84, 705.92], "text": " different approaches at the same time and keeping them in mind and often like mentally not"}, {"timestamp": [705.92, 709.08], "text": " throwing them away in case you go down one route and it doesn't work and you"}, {"timestamp": [709.08, 716.0], "text": " have to back up and go down a different route and often it's also a process of"}, {"timestamp": [716.0, 728.16], "text": " choosing when to go with your first thought and when to go with your like 246th thought. It's rarely like your fifth thought, I find,"}, {"timestamp": [728.16, 738.66], "text": " personally, but I think like that sort of thinking of like what's the"}, {"timestamp": [738.66, 743.62], "text": " most intuitive thing to do here balanced with like what's an unintuitive thing to"}, {"timestamp": [743.62, 748.56], "text": " do here that I haven't maybe thought of yet that would be a better way of approaching this I think is"}, {"timestamp": [748.56, 752.88], "text": " helpful along with obviously the editing process of poetry is so like granular"}, {"timestamp": [752.88, 757.28], "text": " and like you have to and even short stories like there's this you know tip"}, {"timestamp": [757.28, 764.04], "text": " of like if you find yourself taking in and or taking out and putting in the"}, {"timestamp": [764.04, 765.4], "text": " same comma over and over again"}, {"timestamp": [765.4, 772.68], "text": " your story is probably done otherwise it's probably not. So it's it's yeah it"}, {"timestamp": [772.68, 776.68], "text": " kind of all ties together in a way especially because when you're writing"}, {"timestamp": [776.68, 781.68], "text": " you're trying to write for yourself but also write for your audience and you're"}, {"timestamp": [781.68, 791.12], "text": " trying to think of how you're writing interacts with another brain or a potential other brain or potentially many other brains but you're also"}, {"timestamp": [791.12, 796.0], "text": " trying not to think about that as much but it's but you you have to be thinking about that and"}, {"timestamp": [796.0, 808.68], "text": " with the with prompt engineering there's this balance of treating the AI as human in a weird way where you're like, what, how would a human do this?"}, {"timestamp": [808.68, 813.94], "text": " What parts of the human thought process am I missing when I analyze this task?"}, {"timestamp": [813.94, 819.12], "text": " Like what is missing from this task in this sort of undercurrent of it that isn't being"}, {"timestamp": [819.12, 822.36], "text": " provided to the AI?"}, {"timestamp": [822.36, 825.22], "text": " And sometimes that's better with like treating it as more human, but then there are also"}, {"timestamp": [825.22, 830.56], "text": " ways where you're like, I am treating it as too human and I need to back up and think"}, {"timestamp": [830.56, 835.44], "text": " of the specific limitations and the specific powers that it has and that each different"}, {"timestamp": [835.44, 836.44], "text": " model has."}, {"timestamp": [836.44, 838.44], "text": " So that was very rambling."}, {"timestamp": [838.44, 839.44], "text": " I'm sorry."}, {"timestamp": [839.44, 842.32], "text": " Well, I have good news."}, {"timestamp": [842.32, 846.36], "text": " I was able to follow it, but I think that there's, I mean,"}, {"timestamp": [846.36, 848.78], "text": " gosh, there's so much that I agree with you on,"}, {"timestamp": [848.78, 854.28], "text": " because I've been slightly obsessed myself with language models."}, {"timestamp": [855.6, 858.96], "text": " You mentioned a few things a couple of"}, {"timestamp": [858.96, 862.0], "text": " times that I want to unpack a little bit."}, {"timestamp": [862.0, 864.6], "text": " One was audience."}, {"timestamp": [864.6, 868.96], "text": " You've mentioned audience a couple of times. Thinking"}, {"timestamp": [868.96, 875.52], "text": " about the language model as your potential audience, maybe it helps to think about it as human"}, {"timestamp": [875.52, 888.2], "text": " or not, depending on. There is that aspect. But you have also talked about how you tend to think through the undercurrents of what is and is"}, {"timestamp": [888.2, 893.92], "text": " not present in the language that you are feeding the model or the prompt engineering."}, {"timestamp": [893.92, 897.68], "text": " One thing that really stood out to me, the thing that most stood out to me as you were"}, {"timestamp": [897.68, 902.48], "text": " sharing that was the process of writing poetry."}, {"timestamp": [902.48, 906.96], "text": " You said that sometimes there is the intuitive path, there's the unintuitive"}, {"timestamp": [906.96, 912.88], "text": " path, sometimes you pay attention to the first thing and sometimes it's the 200th thing."}, {"timestamp": [912.88, 918.1], "text": " And that sounds kind of like prompt engineering in some respects."}, {"timestamp": [918.1, 926.32], "text": " And so what I wanted to do was explore this idea that creative writing or poetry in particular, which is a very specific"}, {"timestamp": [926.32, 934.78], "text": " use of language, how your mental approaches to this, how that might have played into your"}, {"timestamp": [934.78, 940.68], "text": " abilities as a prompt engineer, what your observations are, and then finally, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [940.68, 943.72], "text": " editing, if that kind of figures into it as a skill."}, {"timestamp": [943.72, 947.7], "text": " I want to think about these things as skills that have been developed or intuitions that"}, {"timestamp": [947.7, 948.7], "text": " have been developed."}, {"timestamp": [948.7, 954.02], "text": " So what are your associations there with poetry and audience?"}, {"timestamp": [954.02, 963.26], "text": " Yeah, I think choosing the exact right word is, in order to elicit the right reaction,"}, {"timestamp": [963.26, 966.0], "text": " is extremely important."}, {"timestamp": [966.0, 970.0], "text": " And I actually don't even know which one I'm talking about when I say that because I mean it for both."}, {"timestamp": [970.0, 977.0], "text": " And elicit the right reaction, although means very different things for both of those."}, {"timestamp": [977.0, 988.16], "text": " You're almost trying to, by finding the exact right word in the prompt, like almost task locate for the right"}, {"timestamp": [988.16, 993.88], "text": " reaction from the AI. And I think people underutilize word choice in their prompts. They sort of"}, {"timestamp": [993.88, 997.92], "text": " rely on approach, which it's good to take a variety of approaches. That's also very"}, {"timestamp": [997.92, 1003.28], "text": " good. But sometimes I find that an approach I want to take doesn't work on the first try"}, {"timestamp": [1003.28, 1005.6], "text": " or like the 10th try with the wording I'm trying,"}, {"timestamp": [1005.6, 1011.52], "text": " like sometimes it is really helpful, like you can make this crazy approach that you thought just,"}, {"timestamp": [1011.52, 1017.68], "text": " you know, wasn't viable work when you like really hit the right like vocabulary for it."}, {"timestamp": [1018.32, 1022.56], "text": " Um, like there's a specific, I won't go into too much detail, but there's a specific approach that"}, {"timestamp": [1022.56, 1025.12], "text": " way that I was like, oh it it doesn't work it doesn't work"}, {"timestamp": [1025.12, 1028.24], "text": " and like no matter the synonyms I try and then I get on this phrase"}, {"timestamp": [1028.24, 1032.4], "text": " thoroughly and faithfully and that like unlocked the whole thing"}, {"timestamp": [1032.4, 1035.44], "text": " um and the same thing can happen with poetry"}, {"timestamp": [1035.44, 1039.28], "text": " I mean instead of the right generation happening what you're"}, {"timestamp": [1039.28, 1042.24], "text": " looking for is that like pick in the chest"}, {"timestamp": [1042.24, 1047.84], "text": " when you read it which is a bit more ephemeral and whatever but"}, {"timestamp": [1049.28, 1054.8], "text": " but you know for me does feel in some ways like a binary when I read poetry like either that"}, {"timestamp": [1054.8, 1064.0], "text": " happens for me or it doesn't. So yeah I think a lot of it comes back to language as act and you"}, {"timestamp": [1064.0, 1067.12], "text": " know language as speech act and that kind of thing"}, {"timestamp": [1067.12, 1074.8], "text": " and this is like a very like prompt engineering is a very literal like concrete example of like"}, {"timestamp": [1074.8, 1083.04], "text": " language as like a speech act like a like a piece of speech that by being spoken enacts something"}, {"timestamp": [1084.08, 1086.48], "text": " um so i think they both belong to that category."}, {"timestamp": [1086.48, 1092.0], "text": " That's maybe a little more like, I don't know, maybe we're looking for something"}, {"timestamp": [1092.0, 1095.96], "text": " a little more practical. I think word choice and I think in poetry something"}, {"timestamp": [1095.96, 1099.92], "text": " that's also underutilized is variety of approach when it comes to like, I know I"}, {"timestamp": [1099.92, 1103.68], "text": " need to use that more when it's when something's not working, I've gone"}, {"timestamp": [1103.68, 1108.16], "text": " down a pathway for a while to go back and think about the whole approach"}, {"timestamp": [1108.16, 1114.88], "text": " of the poem rather than line by line necessarily or the wording of lines."}, {"timestamp": [1114.88, 1119.72], "text": " That does happen with prompt engineering as well where you realize you have overengineered"}, {"timestamp": [1119.72, 1125.8], "text": " something and the approach just isn't working and you need to like take a step back from it."}, {"timestamp": [1125.8, 1128.8], "text": " So there's a lot of parallels there."}, {"timestamp": [1128.8, 1130.04], "text": " Absolutely."}, {"timestamp": [1130.04, 1137.12], "text": " One of the cardinal rules that I have learned is more often than not less is more."}, {"timestamp": [1137.12, 1152.44], "text": " Sometimes if you are really struggling with a prompt, just simplify it and see what happens. So one of the another phrase that you have used kind of differently when you were describing"}, {"timestamp": [1152.44, 1160.34], "text": " like working through or getting the right effect from creative writing and you use this"}, {"timestamp": [1160.34, 1166.56], "text": " word again or this pair of words for getting the prompt, getting the machine to"}, {"timestamp": [1166.56, 1169.84], "text": " do what you want it to do is locking versus unlocking."}, {"timestamp": [1169.84, 1175.56], "text": " Trying to unlock whether it is a particular response from a person, from a reader or trying"}, {"timestamp": [1175.56, 1180.92], "text": " to get that feeling for yourself or then of course getting the performance from the machine."}, {"timestamp": [1180.92, 1185.0], "text": " So that is a very particular choice of words and it resonates with me, but I wanted to"}, {"timestamp": [1185.0, 1191.08], "text": " ask you, what do you mean when you use that, I don't know if it's an analogy, but the adjectives"}, {"timestamp": [1191.08, 1194.24], "text": " of locked versus unlocked."}, {"timestamp": [1194.24, 1197.84], "text": " It's almost like you're trying to pull something out of the machine, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1197.84, 1200.52], "text": " Just like you're trying to pull something out of a reader or yourself."}, {"timestamp": [1200.52, 1228.72], "text": " Yeah, yeah, it's similar to that. You know that the thing you're trying to say, the emotion is almost a strange word for it, it's a bit wrong, but the emotion you're trying to get at is somewhere within yourself also, I mean, you're your primary reader as you're writing poetry, so you're trying to like create that feeling for yourself too. And you know it's somewhere in the big jumble of all"}, {"timestamp": [1228.72, 1235.68], "text": " the words that could ever exist and you're trying to find the right ones in order to, yeah, unlock"}, {"timestamp": [1235.68, 1250.78], "text": " it or it would be like find it. And when you're working with AI, you're working with sort of a toddler that knows everything but also when you're writing poetry you're like thinking"}, {"timestamp": [1250.78, 1254.44], "text": " about how you're writing for like everyone and not everyone in the world"}, {"timestamp": [1254.44, 1259.08], "text": " but like you're not writing typically for one person you're writing for like"}, {"timestamp": [1259.08, 1263.28], "text": " an audience of brains so it's actually not that dissimilar in a weird way where"}, {"timestamp": [1263.28, 1266.0], "text": " you're like this is it doesn't"}, {"timestamp": [1266.0, 1271.36], "text": " have to like unlock or task locate or however you want to put it that response in every single"}, {"timestamp": [1271.36, 1279.2], "text": " person as long as it like task locates for it in the people for whom that emotion exists in that or"}, {"timestamp": [1279.2, 1290.0], "text": " like that particular connection exists of experience um or of enjoying your poetry or whatever that sentence got the hell away from me, but"}, {"timestamp": [1291.16, 1293.16], "text": " yeah, it's it's"}, {"timestamp": [1293.68, 1295.68], "text": " the the more I"}, {"timestamp": [1295.96, 1300.6], "text": " Like think about parallels the more it does come back like ask location of emotion for poetry"}, {"timestamp": [1302.96, 1307.44], "text": " Which is kind of strange I hadn't thought about it that way before."}, {"timestamp": [1307.44, 1308.44], "text": " Excellent."}, {"timestamp": [1308.44, 1309.44], "text": " Excellent."}, {"timestamp": [1309.44, 1312.84], "text": " Yeah, so you mentioned task locating a few times."}, {"timestamp": [1312.84, 1318.8], "text": " And my fianc\u00e9 is a librarian by training, and so she's shared that term with me."}, {"timestamp": [1318.8, 1323.86], "text": " But from your perspective, could you share with our audience what it is that you mean"}, {"timestamp": [1323.86, 1325.6], "text": " by task locating"}, {"timestamp": [1329.28, 1335.12], "text": " as it pertains to prompt engineering, you know, with large language models, but also with human audiences. And, you know, you've talked a lot about audience and alluded"}, {"timestamp": [1335.12, 1340.88], "text": " to like theory of mind. Like you model what's going on in the mind of either the machine or"}, {"timestamp": [1340.88, 1345.24], "text": " your audience of one, your audience of yourself or audience of many, many brains."}, {"timestamp": [1345.24, 1347.52], "text": " So talk to us a little bit about task locating."}, {"timestamp": [1347.52, 1349.84], "text": " What is that?"}, {"timestamp": [1349.84, 1352.68], "text": " Task locating is essentially tricking the AI."}, {"timestamp": [1352.68, 1361.12], "text": " No, it's finding for if what you want it to generate typically exists within a specific"}, {"timestamp": [1361.12, 1366.36], "text": " context, it's recreating that context for it so that it is more likely"}, {"timestamp": [1366.36, 1370.04], "text": " to generate the thing you want."}, {"timestamp": [1370.04, 1378.28], "text": " You know, like if you wanted to generate a name, and for whatever reason you weren't"}, {"timestamp": [1378.28, 1382.8], "text": " just doing this in a simpler way, you could be like, you know, paper, like paper title"}, {"timestamp": [1382.8, 1385.6], "text": " by, and then it would generate a name, even though"}, {"timestamp": [1385.6, 1391.12], "text": " you haven't told it to generate a name. So that's like a very simple, like example of task location."}, {"timestamp": [1391.68, 1394.8], "text": " But the idea of it crops up in a lot of other ways, you can sort of like,"}, {"timestamp": [1396.08, 1400.56], "text": " a lot of it gets fuzzy with also sort of like priming the model in different ways."}, {"timestamp": [1402.64, 1407.24], "text": " And it also intersects, I think, with like, I'm not totally sure"}, {"timestamp": [1407.24, 1411.34], "text": " what the industry term is for this right now, but things tend to change around, but"}, {"timestamp": [1411.34, 1419.32], "text": " like irregular K-Shots, where the example is actually with different tasks. But"}, {"timestamp": [1419.32, 1424.0], "text": " even with regular K, you are kind of task-locating for like, you know, here's"}, {"timestamp": [1424.0, 1426.0], "text": " this example, here's this example, here's this example, here's this example."}, {"timestamp": [1426.0, 1435.0], "text": " You're like trying to convince it that somewhere within it exists a list of the perfect examples that you need."}, {"timestamp": [1435.0, 1450.0], "text": " So yeah, I guess there's like concrete task location of like things that actually exist in its corpus. And then there's a bit of deceptive task location for things that you're trying to tell it exist in its corpus."}, {"timestamp": [1450.0, 1460.4], "text": " But a common way to sort of task locate a prime is through author voice."}, {"timestamp": [1460.4, 1475.72], "text": " You see it all the time. You are a sentient AI that is really good at stuff."}, {"timestamp": [1475.72, 1480.12], "text": " That is a form of task location in my opinion."}, {"timestamp": [1480.12, 1485.56], "text": " The author voice thing. Yeah, in one of my books I called that agent model."}, {"timestamp": [1485.56, 1488.56], "text": " You tell it this is what you are and this is what you are capable of and it is able"}, {"timestamp": [1488.56, 1493.32], "text": " to step into those shoes and say this is what I am."}, {"timestamp": [1493.32, 1494.32], "text": " How did you say it?"}, {"timestamp": [1494.32, 1499.98], "text": " You said kind of tricking the AI or getting it to confabulate into this latent space that"}, {"timestamp": [1499.98, 1500.98], "text": " it has got."}, {"timestamp": [1500.98, 1502.24], "text": " That's wonderful."}, {"timestamp": [1502.24, 1509.92], "text": " I'm glad to know that another human thinks about this the way that I do. It's very reassuring. Because I've tried to explain some of this to folks"}, {"timestamp": [1509.92, 1518.2], "text": " and some people don't get it. Because one thing that I have found is that computer science"}, {"timestamp": [1518.2, 1529.8], "text": " people sometimes think of it as a machine learning model first, but you and I, we seem to think of it as a language instrument first."}, {"timestamp": [1529.8, 1537.2], "text": " I don't want to put words in your mouth. Do you agree with that? Do you think of this as primarily, what did you call it earlier?"}, {"timestamp": [1537.2, 1545.52], "text": " A speech act, right? Do you think of it as a machine or do you think of it otherwise? I definitely still think of it as a machine."}, {"timestamp": [1546.48, 1554.16], "text": " You know, it's, there have been concepts over the past however long it's been, a year and a"}, {"timestamp": [1554.16, 1562.88], "text": " half, however long, where I've learned more about the sort of like, not even broad concepts of"}, {"timestamp": [1562.88, 1565.52], "text": " machine learning, because a lot of them are specific, but sort"}, {"timestamp": [1565.52, 1571.64], "text": " of from a non-technical, like this lever does this, it works this way, and that helps, I"}, {"timestamp": [1571.64, 1575.24], "text": " find, a lot in explaining a lot of its behavior."}, {"timestamp": [1575.24, 1581.56], "text": " But then there are also things I end up explaining to people who make the, where it's like, well,"}, {"timestamp": [1581.56, 1588.24], "text": " it acts this way, and I think it's because of this or like have you noticed this behavior where it is like inevitably"}, {"timestamp": [1588.24, 1592.48], "text": " getting away from them a little bit like you can't predict all of its behavior"}, {"timestamp": [1592.48, 1598.8], "text": " via the technical side of machine learning that's almost the points of it"}, {"timestamp": [1598.8, 1606.42], "text": " so it is like I mean it's a sign that the technical side of it has been very successful"}, {"timestamp": [1606.42, 1613.84], "text": " that we are now like thinking of it in a non-technical way."}, {"timestamp": [1613.84, 1620.2], "text": " Yeah, that makes total sense."}, {"timestamp": [1620.2, 1629.56], "text": " Especially kind of the way that you just articulated that at the end, it is a sign of success that it's"}, {"timestamp": [1629.56, 1635.08], "text": " gotten away from strictly the engineering side or the scientific or technical side by"}, {"timestamp": [1635.08, 1640.94], "text": " virtue of the fact that it is working because it is not explicitly maybe deterministic or"}, {"timestamp": [1640.94, 1652.08], "text": " fully mechanistic. So what I wanted to explore a little bit more on this line of reasoning or thinking was"}, {"timestamp": [1652.08, 1658.54], "text": " how does so you said that you do think of it kind of as a machine and you try and observe"}, {"timestamp": [1658.54, 1663.98], "text": " its behaviors and establish reasons for the behaviors or at least explanations, a model"}, {"timestamp": [1663.98, 1666.08], "text": " for the behaviors or at least explanations, a model for the behavior."}, {"timestamp": [1666.08, 1672.68], "text": " But how does language overlay or intersect with that?"}, {"timestamp": [1672.68, 1679.12], "text": " Because at the beginning of the conversation, you mentioned all kinds of aspects of language,"}, {"timestamp": [1679.12, 1686.74], "text": " Arabic language, diacritics and grammar and everything. So based on your use of large language models,"}, {"timestamp": [1686.74, 1690.56], "text": " how much do aspects of language,"}, {"timestamp": [1690.56, 1691.76], "text": " such as you mentioned,"}, {"timestamp": [1691.76, 1694.88], "text": " vocabulary, word choice, different approaches."}, {"timestamp": [1694.88, 1700.0], "text": " But what about grammar and syntax and other aspects of language?"}, {"timestamp": [1700.0, 1703.2], "text": " How do you perceive those as having been woven"}, {"timestamp": [1703.2, 1706.16], "text": " into the machine, so to speak?"}, {"timestamp": [1707.52, 1710.08], "text": " I'm not totally sure I understand the question. I'm sorry."}, {"timestamp": [1711.28, 1716.24], "text": " That's fine. I probably didn't ask that well. Okay. So, asking it another way,"}, {"timestamp": [1717.2, 1721.6], "text": " here, let's do some human prompt engineering. So, the prompt that I just gave you didn't work."}, {"timestamp": [1722.24, 1730.24], "text": " So, let me try a different prompt. So So word choice is very important for prompt engineering, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1730.24, 1732.88], "text": " How important is grammar or syntax?"}, {"timestamp": [1732.88, 1734.52], "text": " Oh, I see."}, {"timestamp": [1734.52, 1735.52], "text": " Okay."}, {"timestamp": [1735.52, 1736.52], "text": " Yeah."}, {"timestamp": [1736.52, 1737.52], "text": " Yeah."}, {"timestamp": [1737.52, 1750.8], "text": " I mean, your the way you choose to phrase something, the style of syntax you use can also like can indicate a level of sophistication"}, {"timestamp": [1750.8, 1755.84], "text": " of writing versus the simplicity of writing and maybe you want that simplicity of writing, you"}, {"timestamp": [1755.84, 1767.0], "text": " want direct, you know, simple cause and effect informational writing for your readers, or maybe you want it to be a bit more human sounding or literary, and that"}, {"timestamp": [1767.0, 1773.0], "text": " the style of, I find like, rhythm,"}, {"timestamp": [1773.0, 1778.0], "text": " especially with example following models, the style of"}, {"timestamp": [1778.0, 1783.0], "text": " the rhythm of the sentence, and having a"}, {"timestamp": [1783.0, 1788.0], "text": " you know, a classic sort of writing rule, having like a variety of rhythms in your sentences,"}, {"timestamp": [1788.0, 1795.0], "text": " variety of number of clauses in your sentences, tends to make its writing, I find, more sophisticated."}, {"timestamp": [1795.0, 1809.9], "text": " There are also, you know, things like creating links, when you want it to do a task, like creating links via the verbs you use, where you can use causative verbs"}, {"timestamp": [1809.9, 1828.0], "text": " rather than linking things with, like, just, like, being like, you have a bunch of briefs and a bunch of these things. Or like a bunch of briefs and a bunch of pieces of content."}, {"timestamp": [1828.0, 1832.0], "text": " You can actually link those causatively, rather than"}, {"timestamp": [1832.0, 1836.0], "text": " just kind of putting them near each other in the sentence."}, {"timestamp": [1836.0, 1840.0], "text": " There's also, like, this isn't quite great, but when it comes"}, {"timestamp": [1840.0, 1844.0], "text": " to word choice, there's like approaches where sometimes referring"}, {"timestamp": [1844.0, 1849.28], "text": " to something in different places with synonyms, if you can refer to it multiple times throughout the prompt,"}, {"timestamp": [1850.32, 1855.52], "text": " like referring to it with synonyms each time can help the model sort of triangulate on what it is."}, {"timestamp": [1857.04, 1861.52], "text": " But if you're using that section as sort of a tool for another section, you want it to refer"}, {"timestamp": [1861.52, 1867.88], "text": " back to that section, you really need parity between what you label it and what you call it in the sentence."}, {"timestamp": [1867.88, 1871.2], "text": " You can't approximate it the way you would with a human being, necessarily."}, {"timestamp": [1871.2, 1874.64], "text": " Or it won't work as well."}, {"timestamp": [1874.64, 1876.84], "text": " So structurally, there's a lot of stuff."}, {"timestamp": [1876.84, 1883.28], "text": " There's also the whole approach, I'm sure, of you can put things in the future tense,"}, {"timestamp": [1883.28, 1885.16], "text": " the present tense, the past tense."}, {"timestamp": [1885.16, 1886.72], "text": " You can say you have already written this."}, {"timestamp": [1886.72, 1888.26], "text": " Explain to me how you did it."}, {"timestamp": [1888.26, 1898.04], "text": " You can do a lot of weird stuff with, yeah, just with tense especially I find that can"}, {"timestamp": [1898.04, 1901.0], "text": " really switch up abilities."}, {"timestamp": [1901.0, 1903.56], "text": " Yeah, absolutely."}, {"timestamp": [1903.56, 1908.72], "text": " Especially by making those positive assertions, it just kind of rolls"}, {"timestamp": [1908.72, 1912.7], "text": " with it and says, okay, sure, you told me this thing is true, so I'll just assume that"}, {"timestamp": [1912.7, 1917.56], "text": " that's true. Or at least that seems to be how it interprets that. One thing that you"}, {"timestamp": [1917.56, 1927.6], "text": " said earlier that I wanted to unpack before we take a brief break and then come back to change gears was you"}, {"timestamp": [1927.6, 1933.36], "text": " said that this kind of AI is like a toddler that knows everything. And I thought that that was"}, {"timestamp": [1934.48, 1941.44], "text": " very illustrative. But I like that. And I was wondering if you could unpack how you came to"}, {"timestamp": [1941.44, 1951.12], "text": " that understanding of large language models. I mean, it's a little trite. It's not like totally true, but it's like, you know, it's"}, {"timestamp": [1951.12, 1959.76], "text": " close enough. It's how I describe it at parties when I'm trying to describe my job. But yeah,"}, {"timestamp": [1959.76, 1968.64], "text": " it's, I mean, it has a huge wealth of knowledge and also often not a lot of common sense,"}, {"timestamp": [1968.64, 1972.64], "text": " although obviously that's getting better all the time."}, {"timestamp": [1972.64, 1978.28], "text": " But it doesn't have common sense the way a human being has common sense, where when we're"}, {"timestamp": [1978.28, 1982.68], "text": " in an interaction with another person, we are thinking..."}, {"timestamp": [1982.68, 1984.68], "text": " There's like a tent we put over..."}, {"timestamp": [1984.68, 1986.0], "text": " This is going to be confusing,"}, {"timestamp": [1986.0, 1993.28], "text": " there's a tent we put over the interaction, I feel like, of like the other person's intent,"}, {"timestamp": [1993.28, 1998.08], "text": " what they want out of the conversation, like, especially if we're like trying to do something"}, {"timestamp": [1998.08, 2004.32], "text": " for them, obviously, it's like, what is the goal? And it doesn't always,"}, {"timestamp": [2010.16, 2016.96], "text": " goal. And it doesn't always... sometimes it doesn't have the tent over what it's doing, and sometimes it puts the tent up over here, or like, just, or it's upside down, or like,"}, {"timestamp": [2016.96, 2022.72], "text": " whatever, it's not always as good at that as a human being is. Where you're like, you"}, {"timestamp": [2022.72, 2027.6], "text": " kind of did this, you did what you thought you were doing well,"}, {"timestamp": [2027.6, 2033.36], "text": " but a human being would understand that that's not, and that's what I, like, when I'm editing"}, {"timestamp": [2033.36, 2037.52], "text": " other people's prompts, so much of what I'm doing is going back into the prompt and going,"}, {"timestamp": [2037.52, 2041.48], "text": " this, you didn't even say, like, what you thought, like, what, like, you're telling"}, {"timestamp": [2041.48, 2048.16], "text": " me out loud what you want, and that's not what you told the AI, you it to do something totally different and it's like or something like a little bit off and"}, {"timestamp": [2048.16, 2052.64], "text": " it's taking you very literally and doing that thing rather than doing what a human would do"}, {"timestamp": [2052.64, 2059.52], "text": " and like understanding the overall task um and that reminds me of being a child i didn't know"}, {"timestamp": [2059.52, 2065.28], "text": " what was going on i i definitely remember i probably still have moments like that, but that definitely reminds"}, {"timestamp": [2065.28, 2074.16], "text": " me of, you know, being, yeah, literally being a toddler and like not understanding often"}, {"timestamp": [2074.16, 2077.6], "text": " the dynamics of situations I was in."}, {"timestamp": [2077.6, 2086.0], "text": " Except I didn't have like all the details of the War of 1812 or whatever in my brain."}, {"timestamp": [2086.0, 2089.0], "text": " Yeah, absolutely."}, {"timestamp": [2089.0, 2092.0], "text": " That's such a great way to elucidate that."}, {"timestamp": [2092.0, 2095.0], "text": " Okay, so we're going to take a quick break."}, {"timestamp": [2095.0, 2098.0], "text": " Obviously for the audience it will be instantaneous, but we'll be right back."}, {"timestamp": [2098.0, 2107.36], "text": " And we will change focus on to a little bit other aspects of language and language models and where AI"}, {"timestamp": [2107.36, 2108.36], "text": " is going."}, {"timestamp": [2108.36, 2110.96], "text": " So we will be back in just a moment."}, {"timestamp": [2110.96, 2114.2], "text": " Hey, everybody."}, {"timestamp": [2114.2, 2117.0], "text": " And we are back from our short break."}, {"timestamp": [2117.0, 2124.16], "text": " So I wanted to change gears for the last section of this episode."}, {"timestamp": [2124.16, 2128.4], "text": " As the audience may or may not know, one of the key things that I want"}, {"timestamp": [2128.4, 2136.24], "text": " to do with this podcast is to demystify AI for 2023 and for the world because things are changing"}, {"timestamp": [2136.24, 2139.84], "text": " so incredibly quickly and that's why I'm having these interviews with people who are"}, {"timestamp": [2140.48, 2148.16], "text": " at the cutting edge or who have past experience to draw from in order to help provide guidance"}, {"timestamp": [2148.16, 2152.52], "text": " and kind of shine some light on the situation for the rest of us."}, {"timestamp": [2152.52, 2159.4], "text": " So Anna, I wanted to ask you, where do you see AI going?"}, {"timestamp": [2159.4, 2162.98], "text": " Particularly how are things going to change in 2023?"}, {"timestamp": [2162.98, 2165.8], "text": " What are your thoughts on kind of the state of things and where it's going in change in 2023? What are your thoughts on the state of things and where"}, {"timestamp": [2165.8, 2169.0], "text": " it is going in the immediate future?"}, {"timestamp": [2169.0, 2189.88], "text": " Pretty difficult question to answer. I think as we see the writing quality itself of current LLMs improve and get more human, there will probably be kind of a parallel"}, {"timestamp": [2189.88, 2198.52], "text": " debate about, like, people, right now the debate for writing is like, will students"}, {"timestamp": [2198.52, 2201.4], "text": " generate essays with the AI?"}, {"timestamp": [2201.4, 2207.52], "text": " And I think as the writing quality gets better and better it'll move into will people"}, {"timestamp": [2207.52, 2212.96], "text": " win writing competitions using bits and pieces maybe not hold up but like from the AI it's"}, {"timestamp": [2212.96, 2230.0], "text": " parallel to the debate that's going on with like visual art and AI visual art and I think, I hope that that'll sort of even itself out."}, {"timestamp": [2230.0, 2239.0], "text": " People will realize that that's kind of like how 3D printing didn't kill sculpture."}, {"timestamp": [2239.0, 2244.0], "text": " It's, and I hope people embrace it as a tool."}, {"timestamp": [2244.0, 2245.84], "text": " I think maybe that won't happen in"}, {"timestamp": [2245.84, 2251.92], "text": " 2023 but I do think that'll happen you know as just rather than thinking of it"}, {"timestamp": [2251.92, 2256.56], "text": " as competition thinking of it as like an augmentation like another brain to think"}, {"timestamp": [2256.56, 2290.0], "text": " with but not a replacement for your brain and I I mean I also think the nature of like search going to change, the nature of finding information is going to change as we get things like chat GPT which are reliable conversational returners of information that in a way have a better idea of the tent that I was talking about earlier."}, {"timestamp": [2290.0, 2295.0], "text": " I don't know why I keep saying the tent, and that's so close to the word intent, which is really just what I mean."}, {"timestamp": [2295.0, 2306.2], "text": " But your overall intent, Google has poured so much into intent of search, and when you make it conversational and make it an AI like"}, {"timestamp": [2306.2, 2311.46], "text": " chat GPT that it's able to do it really well so I think that's going to change I"}, {"timestamp": [2311.46, 2316.68], "text": " know I've already used it that way I was bored with the deli sandwiches I was"}, {"timestamp": [2316.68, 2321.36], "text": " ordering my usual roster and whenever I searched a new type of deli sandwich or"}, {"timestamp": [2321.36, 2325.52], "text": " like deli sandwich best deli say whatever I tried to search, it was like,"}, {"timestamp": [2325.52, 2330.8], "text": " here's some great deli sandwiches to make at home. And I was like, that's not helpful. And it's not,"}, {"timestamp": [2330.8, 2336.64], "text": " like, I need like a, for like a New York deli, like, what's a good combination? And I used chat"}, {"timestamp": [2336.64, 2340.4], "text": " GPT for it. And it gave me a slightly weird, but pretty good sandwich. I don't remember what was"}, {"timestamp": [2340.4, 2347.56], "text": " in it, but it was pretty delicious. Anyway, so. My point is I think the nature of search is going to change and I hope that the nature"}, {"timestamp": [2347.56, 2352.56], "text": " or how people think about like creative augmentations change."}, {"timestamp": [2352.56, 2360.6], "text": " That is a phenomenal view and I am right there with you in terms of one, just hoping for"}, {"timestamp": [2360.6, 2365.8], "text": " people to embrace it and thinking of it as an augmentation, not a replacement,"}, {"timestamp": [2365.8, 2370.88], "text": " something that helps make our lives better, easier, whatever."}, {"timestamp": [2370.88, 2374.24], "text": " That's a great idea using it for coming up with a better sandwich."}, {"timestamp": [2374.24, 2375.36], "text": " I haven't used it for that yet."}, {"timestamp": [2375.36, 2383.12], "text": " I have used it to help with my own writing and drafting and those sorts of tasks."}, {"timestamp": [2383.12, 2389.12], "text": " So you pointed out that 3D printing didn't kill sculpture. Hopefully things like"}, {"timestamp": [2389.12, 2393.44], "text": " Dolly and mid journey and stable diffusion don't kill graphic art. I don't think it is going to."}, {"timestamp": [2394.08, 2400.24], "text": " But certainly there is a lot of consternation over those boundaries right now. I think that is kind"}, {"timestamp": [2400.24, 2405.08], "text": " of probably the more diplomatic way of saying it."}, {"timestamp": [2405.08, 2407.56], "text": " Certainly there is a lot of pain on both sides."}, {"timestamp": [2407.56, 2414.96], "text": " There is AI artists who are relieved that they are finally able to express themselves"}, {"timestamp": [2414.96, 2421.44], "text": " with the help of these tools and there are other artists that are also kind of facing"}, {"timestamp": [2421.44, 2426.16], "text": " pain because they feel like something is being taken away from them."}, {"timestamp": [2426.16, 2429.2], "text": " And certainly there is huge disruption."}, {"timestamp": [2429.2, 2431.8], "text": " And I really empathize with people on both sides."}, {"timestamp": [2431.8, 2437.24], "text": " I have had YouTube comments from people on both sides just expressing like, yeah, this"}, {"timestamp": [2437.24, 2438.92], "text": " kind of sucks."}, {"timestamp": [2438.92, 2445.44], "text": " So with that, I wanted to ask a little bit more, you know, what are you worried about?"}, {"timestamp": [2445.44, 2451.92], "text": " You mentioned certainly like New York City banned chat GPT in schools."}, {"timestamp": [2451.92, 2455.7], "text": " So is there anything else that you are worried about?"}, {"timestamp": [2455.7, 2465.0], "text": " And then beyond that, what I'm worried about."}, {"timestamp": [2465.0, 2472.4], "text": " When it comes to the writing side of it, I'm worried about, you know, there is an educational"}, {"timestamp": [2472.4, 2475.92], "text": " element to crafting an essay about a topic."}, {"timestamp": [2475.92, 2477.84], "text": " You learn the topic much better."}, {"timestamp": [2477.84, 2479.36], "text": " It sort of doesn't matter."}, {"timestamp": [2479.36, 2482.64], "text": " The point of crafting the essay is not for the essay to get published somewhere and read"}, {"timestamp": [2482.64, 2489.48], "text": " by other people when you're in school. So when the function of it is that you become more educated"}, {"timestamp": [2489.48, 2495.28], "text": " by crafting the piece of writing, painstakingly on your own, and students are replacing that"}, {"timestamp": [2495.28, 2499.36], "text": " with generating it with an AI, they're losing an educational element, and that's concerning"}, {"timestamp": [2499.36, 2513.2], "text": " to me, for sure. In terms of like, the flip side of that, I think I'm excited to continue, or for the"}, {"timestamp": [2513.2, 2529.2], "text": " creative side of language models to continue to develop. A huge part of my job at Copy.ai is that we offer like a creative, more creative generation than you might find"}, {"timestamp": [2529.2, 2532.96], "text": " from like chat GPT or whatever and more of a variety of approach if you don't like the first"}, {"timestamp": [2532.96, 2537.04], "text": " generation you can regenerate and get something different. That's like a big part of what we offer"}, {"timestamp": [2537.6, 2553.52], "text": " um and yeah creativity of approach, variety of approach, creativity, and human sounding language, even if it's maybe a little bit less precise. And I really just want to like keep exploring that, keep seeing that in"}, {"timestamp": [2553.52, 2562.0], "text": " other places, and I really want people, I mean I touched on this before, but I really want the"}, {"timestamp": [2562.0, 2570.56], "text": " writing world to like embrace this as a really powerful tool that's because the the ultimate goal of your writing you haven't come up with it any"}, {"timestamp": [2570.56, 2575.84], "text": " less in a way like you're still putting this writing in front of if it's beautiful writing"}, {"timestamp": [2575.84, 2590.48], "text": " it's beautiful writing and the purpose of it is the response of the audience and whether or not the beauty of it was like partly"}, {"timestamp": [2590.48, 2596.0], "text": " generated outside the idea for it was partly generated using an old like brain"}, {"timestamp": [2596.0, 2601.48], "text": " augmentation that you're controlling or like your own brain like you crafted it"}, {"timestamp": [2601.48, 2605.76], "text": " and it's beautiful and it's eliciting that response in readers"}, {"timestamp": [2605.76, 2609.56], "text": " and it's eliciting that response in readers because of their human experience."}, {"timestamp": [2609.56, 2614.26], "text": " So I don't think there's, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [2614.26, 2621.56], "text": " I'm debating whether I can share something that happened with an open AI model, but I don't think I can."}, {"timestamp": [2621.56, 2625.84], "text": " Oh man, I'll come back to it at some point. Someday I'll share that story."}, {"timestamp": [2625.84, 2633.24], "text": " But I'm really excited for that side of AI to kind of blossom."}, {"timestamp": [2633.24, 2634.68], "text": " Excellent."}, {"timestamp": [2634.68, 2636.44], "text": " Yeah, and obviously, if there's something"}, {"timestamp": [2636.44, 2639.0], "text": " that you're not comfortable sharing, no big deal."}, {"timestamp": [2639.0, 2641.08], "text": " I think I'm just going to."}, {"timestamp": [2641.08, 2642.08], "text": " That's fine."}, {"timestamp": [2642.08, 2643.68], "text": " That's fine."}, {"timestamp": [2643.68, 2650.0], "text": " Yeah, so as a creative myself, I kind of split two worlds."}, {"timestamp": [2650.0, 2654.0], "text": " I'm on the research side and the creative side."}, {"timestamp": [2654.0, 2659.0], "text": " I definitely feel you there on like let's embrace it."}, {"timestamp": [2659.0, 2661.0], "text": " And while you were speaking, something occurred to me."}, {"timestamp": [2661.0, 2668.64], "text": " Like if as a novelist, if I take my novel to a critique group and I get ideas"}, {"timestamp": [2668.64, 2674.8], "text": " from a critique group and then I take it to an editor, it is not a product of strictly my own"}, {"timestamp": [2674.8, 2683.44], "text": " brain. Same with these tools. I am not saying that, okay, an editor is equivalent to getting"}, {"timestamp": [2683.44, 2686.64], "text": " help from chat GPT or even having a ghost writer,"}, {"timestamp": [2686.64, 2691.84], "text": " right, because it's still a human. But one thing that you focused on was if it elicits the right"}, {"timestamp": [2691.84, 2698.56], "text": " response from the receiver of that art, is that like, you know, that's part of the goal. And we"}, {"timestamp": [2698.56, 2706.08], "text": " don't have to unpack that unless there's any points that you wanted to dive deeper in before we move on to kind of the"}, {"timestamp": [2706.08, 2712.64], "text": " last section of the of the podcast. Yeah I think just one thing quickly is that for something like"}, {"timestamp": [2712.64, 2722.32], "text": " visual art there's a worry there about I think loss of craft like art versus craft and like but"}, {"timestamp": [2722.32, 2726.56], "text": " the craft side of art where people people aren't debating, or people"}, {"timestamp": [2726.56, 2730.52], "text": " aren't, but there's this kind of like, well yeah, you came up with the idea for it and"}, {"timestamp": [2730.52, 2736.8], "text": " whatever, but like, that's only part of it, part of it is like the crafting of the object"}, {"timestamp": [2736.8, 2740.28], "text": " and the skill that goes into that and the artistic sensibility that goes into using"}, {"timestamp": [2740.28, 2741.96], "text": " that skill."}, {"timestamp": [2741.96, 2746.52], "text": " And I can't comment on that because I'm not a visual artist, but I do"}, {"timestamp": [2746.52, 2753.08], "text": " think that's a very fair debate to have. When it comes to writing, the divide between craft"}, {"timestamp": [2753.08, 2758.76], "text": " and art is always more nebulous because there isn't a craft aspect to it. Writing is very"}, {"timestamp": [2758.76, 2766.88], "text": " strange. Sometimes when I'm asked to read poetry at a poetry reading sometimes it"}, {"timestamp": [2766.88, 2771.76], "text": " feels like I'm getting up on stage and being like look how good I can walk and then like"}, {"timestamp": [2771.76, 2778.64], "text": " walking back and forth because it's like something that most of us can do and I'm like I can do this"}, {"timestamp": [2778.64, 2783.52], "text": " even better and like I can do it in a way that means something and I'm like just reading words"}, {"timestamp": [2783.52, 2785.68], "text": " off a page that I wrote."}, {"timestamp": [2789.84, 2796.4], "text": " So that divide has always been a bit more nebulous and I think that's part of what makes people nervous about this is there's like but also why I think when it comes to augmenting creativity,"}, {"timestamp": [2796.4, 2812.28], "text": " when it comes to language, I actually think it there to me there's less of a gray area there. I don't feel as like conflicted about it because, you know, you are not losing like craft."}, {"timestamp": [2812.28, 2821.84], "text": " It's like just a new tool for something that already was like not quite literal craft anyway."}, {"timestamp": [2821.84, 2830.96], "text": " That makes sense. And you know, it's not a perfect analogy but the computer didn't destroy education."}, {"timestamp": [2830.96, 2835.6], "text": " Even though it makes some things easier, some things are a little more convoluted."}, {"timestamp": [2835.6, 2841.2], "text": " And yeah, I do hope that we can adapt to these tools and think of them as just more tools,"}, {"timestamp": [2841.2, 2843.38], "text": " extension of the art."}, {"timestamp": [2843.38, 2847.12], "text": " So I wanted to the final few questions that I had for you,"}, {"timestamp": [2847.12, 2848.26], "text": " the first one is,"}, {"timestamp": [2848.26, 2851.16], "text": " what do you personally want to achieve?"}, {"timestamp": [2851.16, 2854.0], "text": " Like you mentioned at the beginning of the episode that,"}, {"timestamp": [2854.0, 2855.56], "text": " or maybe it was just before we started,"}, {"timestamp": [2855.56, 2857.08], "text": " but you said like, you never"}, {"timestamp": [2857.08, 2859.04], "text": " would have thought that you'd be a prompt engineer."}, {"timestamp": [2859.04, 2863.08], "text": " So how has AI changed your life and your direction and"}, {"timestamp": [2863.08, 2866.26], "text": " your career and what do you want to personally"}, {"timestamp": [2866.26, 2870.5], "text": " achieve in the coming year or two or three?"}, {"timestamp": [2870.5, 2879.58], "text": " Well, I'd love to extend this career and keep doing this."}, {"timestamp": [2879.58, 2890.44], "text": " I'd love to be one of many people, but be on the forefront of steering where these models are going and"}, {"timestamp": [2890.44, 2894.84], "text": " what they're capable of through prompt engineering and prompt optimization and prompt training"}, {"timestamp": [2894.84, 2895.84], "text": " and stuff."}, {"timestamp": [2895.84, 2901.48], "text": " And I think some people see the ability of the AI is this and it's ramping up and prompt"}, {"timestamp": [2901.48, 2905.2], "text": " engineering is like this, where as we get closer to it"}, {"timestamp": [2905.2, 2909.44], "text": " like you know this like prompt engineering is needed less and less and I see it a lot more like"}, {"timestamp": [2909.44, 2918.24], "text": " that. So I'm excited to see like if prompt engineering is capable of what it's capable"}, {"timestamp": [2918.24, 2927.44], "text": " of right now what will it be capable of 10 years from now and I really want to be part of that future. I'm not totally sure"}, {"timestamp": [2927.44, 2931.68], "text": " what that looks like from a career standpoint. I'll get back to you on that."}, {"timestamp": [2931.68, 2937.04], "text": " Yeah, absolutely. I mean, we could no more predict Dolly 2 and then chat GPT than we"}, {"timestamp": [2937.04, 2942.8], "text": " could anything else. So who knows what's going to change within the next 12 months. But yeah,"}, {"timestamp": [2942.8, 2950.0], "text": " like you, I also want to just stay part of it because whatever is going on, it's really cool and it also feels really important."}, {"timestamp": [2950.0, 2965.68], "text": " So, who do you want to get connected with? Is there anyone that you would like to reach out to you on LinkedIn or Twitter or however you want to engage with the world. Is there anyone that you"}, {"timestamp": [2966.48, 2971.2], "text": " want to invite into your professional life or into your sphere?"}, {"timestamp": [2972.72, 2981.68], "text": " Um, come on, come all. I don't know. No, I, you know, I'm interested in connecting with,"}, {"timestamp": [2982.24, 2985.48], "text": " sort of in the same way that copy I was like unsure whether this was"}, {"timestamp": [2985.48, 2993.16], "text": " a role that would add value I'm interested in like thinking about what are other you"}, {"timestamp": [2993.16, 2997.12], "text": " know industries where they don't realize this could add value so if you're like unsure I'd"}, {"timestamp": [2997.12, 3002.32], "text": " love to like discuss that with you if you are one of the other few prompt engineers"}, {"timestamp": [3002.32, 3009.54], "text": " out there a few of you we've connected on LinkedIn but like I feel like it's you know like we're there a"}, {"timestamp": [3009.54, 3013.62], "text": " handful of us and I would love to get connected with anyone else who whether"}, {"timestamp": [3013.62, 3016.98], "text": " that's your official title or not if it's something you do professionally I"}, {"timestamp": [3016.98, 3024.06], "text": " would love to talk to you. And then you know also if you're someone who's"}, {"timestamp": [3024.06, 3025.4], "text": " interested in getting into it, especially"}, {"timestamp": [3025.4, 3030.12], "text": " if you come from a non-tech background, but you think it sounds like something that makes"}, {"timestamp": [3030.12, 3034.64], "text": " sense for you, you have a kind of like, I've said this word a bunch now at this point,"}, {"timestamp": [3034.64, 3043.24], "text": " but like, an obsessiveness is kind of important, and like, really loving language is important."}, {"timestamp": [3043.24, 3048.42], "text": " And more just like loving like semantics and like, approach to this thing is important. And more just like loving semantics and like approach to this thing is important."}, {"timestamp": [3048.42, 3056.72], "text": " So if you're interested in that and if you're interested in AI from like literary or like"}, {"timestamp": [3056.72, 3062.32], "text": " writing quality standpoint, I'd love to get in touch."}, {"timestamp": [3062.32, 3067.0], "text": " Wonderful, wonderful, excellent. And a quick follow-up question, where is best for people to connect with you, on LinkedIn,"}, {"timestamp": [3067.0, 3068.0], "text": " Twitter?"}, {"timestamp": [3068.0, 3069.0], "text": " Probably on LinkedIn, yeah."}, {"timestamp": [3069.0, 3070.0], "text": " Okay."}, {"timestamp": [3070.0, 3081.0], "text": " If people are interested, I also have, I know, I have a few friends who would like yell at"}, {"timestamp": [3081.0, 3088.24], "text": " me if I didn't share this, so I also have my my website which has my writing on it that's been published."}, {"timestamp": [3088.24, 3091.12], "text": " It's poetry and short story so it's not totally relevant."}, {"timestamp": [3091.12, 3094.2], "text": " But that's just my name.com."}, {"timestamp": [3094.2, 3097.56], "text": " But if you want to get in touch about prompt engineering, definitely my LinkedIn would"}, {"timestamp": [3097.56, 3098.56], "text": " be better."}, {"timestamp": [3098.56, 3099.56], "text": " Perfect."}, {"timestamp": [3099.56, 3108.0], "text": " Perfect. Perfect, perfect and I always like to wrap up these episodes by just asking my guests,"}, {"timestamp": [3108.0, 3112.88], "text": " what are the words of wisdom that you want to put out into the world?"}, {"timestamp": [3113.84, 3130.52], "text": " Just any final words, what is it that you would like the world to know or to hear or to think about?"}, {"timestamp": [3133.08, 3136.46], "text": " There's something formulating, but it's not quite coming. It's something about how like creativity,"}, {"timestamp": [3140.32, 3143.92], "text": " we don't have to forfeit the realm of creativity"}, {"timestamp": [3148.84, 3154.12], "text": " as like a particularly human realm just because we've created a new tool that helps us with it."}, {"timestamp": [3154.12, 3155.12], "text": " I don't know if that makes sense."}, {"timestamp": [3155.12, 3156.12], "text": " That's really beautiful."}, {"timestamp": [3156.12, 3158.4], "text": " Yeah, no, that's really beautiful."}, {"timestamp": [3158.4, 3160.44], "text": " And so we'll leave it at that."}, {"timestamp": [3160.44, 3165.12], "text": " We do not have to forfeit the realm of creativity just because we have created a"}, {"timestamp": [3165.12, 3166.12], "text": " tool."}, {"timestamp": [3166.12, 3171.36], "text": " So, thank you so much for."}, {"timestamp": [3171.36, 3174.72], "text": " Thank you so much for your time, Anna."}, {"timestamp": [3174.72, 3176.92], "text": " And I of course wish you well."}, {"timestamp": [3176.92, 3182.64], "text": " And as always, I really enjoyed having this time to speak with you."}, {"timestamp": [3182.64, 3184.56], "text": " And thanks everyone for watching."}, {"timestamp": [3184.56, 3186.88], "text": " And check back in and be good."}, {"timestamp": [3182.01, 3188.89], "text": " time to speak with you. And thanks everyone for watching and check back in and be good."}]}