{"text": " Hey everyone, David Shapiro here with a less fun video topic, but it is a very necessary topic. Basically I'm making this video because like my autism video that you may or may not have seen, I haven't been able to find like one good source to really talk about this all in one place. So here is burnout 101, everything that you need to know about burnout. Overview. So real quick, this is in no specific order, some of the topics we're gonna cover in today's video, but just so that you know what to expect. We're gonna talk about what is burnout, what are the risk factors for burnout, what are the causes, and then also importantly the recovery. How long does it take and how do you prevent it in the future? If you're here you might be in the middle of burnout like myself or you might be worried about burnout which I was worried about burnout for six months until I finally did burnout. So here's everything I've learned in the lead up and recovery stage and learning phase of burnout. All right, so first, what is burnout? The simple definition is, burnout is a state of emotional, physical, and mental exhaustion caused by prolonged and chronic work-related stress. It is characterized by feelings of cynicism, detachment, reduced performance and productivity, and decreased personal satisfaction. This is very clinical, but like turn all those up to 11. And that's what it feels like. Burnout can have negative effects on an individual's mental and physical health, as well as their job performance and personal relationships. Yes, also turn that up to 11. It feels sort of like depression but it's often worse in some ways. It feels literally more just like your smoke and ashes, whereas depression is kind of like just more of a flatness. Now one thing that is very critical to point out is that burnout is recognized in the ICD-10 and 11. So the ICD-10 and 11, those are like the global standards of recognizing medical conditions. So burnout is not just a thing that's in society, it is a medically recognized condition and we'll get into the physiology and neurology of it in a little bit. Okay, so who is at risk of burnout? What are the primary risk factors? So number one, high workload. Plain and simple, if you're doing a lot of work, that can be a contributing factor. Now that being said, the first time I burned out was, actually every time that I burned out, bullying was related, and we'll talk about that in a minute. It's not necessarily always high workload, although it can be. Lack of control. So if you are not, if your needs are not being respected at work, this is one of the key contributing factors. And for me, this was more often the primary contributing factor and it was because as the smartest person on the team so much of the burden fell to me and so it's like well Dave you're the only one who can solve this so we need you right now my last boss at my last company recognized that and actually worked very hard to protect my time he's like no I need you like well rested and so he was very tactical about when he used my level of expertise. But most companies and most managers are not that smart. Most companies will say, oh, well, you saw my problem last time, so they'll come straight back to you. And then when you tell them no, they usually freak out. I literally at a previous job had a manager that I didn't even report to like just have a friggin meltdown on the phone when I said I can't do that right now. So yeah like so lack of control. Lack of social support. Feeling isolated or unsupported by colleagues or supervisors. So that's kind of the same thing. Perfectionism. Having high personal standards like you must constantly meet can contribute to burnout. Now, childhood trauma is one of the key causes of perfectionism later in life. So I'll probably need to do an entire video on perfectionism and childhood trauma, but we'll put a pin in that for now. Type A personality, so type A personality or being a workaholic or being a high-energy person, these are also often, not always often, related to perfectionism and childhood trauma. Whatever it is, workaholism is valorized in this society. Basically workaholism is the only addiction that we praise. It's the only good addiction, but it's still an addiction. Poor job fit. When a job does not match your skills, interests, or values. So this was a big reason that I ultimately quit my startup and all startups is because the corporate world does not align with my personal values. And so every day that I'm working for a corporation or a startup, it chafes. It's like this isn't actually good for me. This doesn't align with my purpose and my reason for being. Personal life stressors. Obviously, stress at home can be a huge contributing factor. If you've got children, if you've got an unsupportive spouse or an abusive spouse, if you've got an alcoholic or other addict in the family, any number of things outside of work can also be a huge contributing factor. Generally speaking, well no I won't say that because there are absolutely people who are like stay-at- home moms or stay-at-home parents who can still experience burnout even though they don't technically work a day job, right? And I'm not gonna ever say that like being a stay at home parent is not a full-time job. I did that, I know that it is. It's often actually harder than a nine to five. And then finally, previous burnout makes you more sensitive to burnout in the future. It's really unfortunate because like the first time that you burn out, it's like, oh man, it it took a couple years and then you get back on the horse and then you burn out in a couple months again. So those are the primary risk factors. Now that being said there are other risk factors that are less talked about. So any kind of neurodivergence or neuro spiciness makes you at much higher risk for burnout. This was talked about in Devin Price's book, Lazy Dust Does Not Exist and Unmasking Autism. Those are two different books by the way, sorry. So if you're HSP, which is highly sensitive person, if you're autistic, if you're ADHD, if you're anything that makes you different, this means that your reaction to stress is going to be more pronounced than other people, and also the world is just not built for you. Furthermore, you're more likely to experience invalidation and bullying, and so in my case, I'm what's called twice exceptional. My flavor of neuro-spiciness is more on the HSP end of autism. And I'm not saying that that HSP is always autism, but there is a pretty big correlation. And so HSP is about being emotionally sensitive and having sensory processing issues such as right here. And so one, because I am gifted, my brain works faster and differently than most people, people perceive that as a norm violation. And so a norm violation is anything that makes you seem different. Then you combine that with HSP and as a strong man with tattoos, I'm not supposed to be emotional. So you combine those norm violations and people just feel like it's okay to bully me. It's like, Dave shut the fuck up. You know and it's like I've literally been told that by people. Sometimes they said it nicer ways but anyways point being is that anything that sets you apart makes you at higher risk of burnout and bullying and all the things that contribute to that. Trauma as I mentioned in the previous slide, childhood trauma is a very large factor, but it doesn't have to be childhood trauma, it can be adult trauma, such as experiencing domestic violence or even any violence, really. Any kind of trauma can make you more susceptible to being in a prolonged state of activation of fight or flight-flight that is called hyper arousal or hyper vigilance. So any kind of trauma can make you more at risk for burnout because some people can just tolerate a baseload of stress seemingly indefinitely, but if you've got trauma that is less likely to be true. And then finally, as I mentioned with neurodivergence, anything that makes you more susceptible to discrimination or marginalization, such as the color of your skin, your accent, your voice, even if you're short or tall, if you're queer or whatever, if you have any kind of disabilities visible or otherwise, you are more likely to have your needs just steamrolled in the workplace. So these are all factors that can contribute to burnout. Okay, now what does burnout feel like? As I mentioned, basically these sound very clinical, but turn it up to 11 and that's what burnout feels like. So first is emotional exhaustion, and that is a very very euphemistic way of saying, you don't give a shit anymore. It is total apathy and total inability to care. Reduce performance and productivity. This is something that some of us can just push through. So looking back a couple of slides at the type A personality and the workaholic, those of us with like ADHD or the ability to hyperfocus and remain productive even when we're on the verge of collapse and dying. Some people can work through very profound levels of illness. So your work performance and productivity may or may not change. And in fact, for those of us who can continue producing, even when we're sick, that can actually be a bad thing, because then we'll work even further and make ourselves even more sick. Detachment and cynicism. So this goes back to that emotional exhaustion and apathy. And specifically having a negative or cynical attitude is just like, this sucks, I hate everything. That was something that echoed through my mind very often as I was leading up to burnout is like, I hate everyone. I hate everything that I'm doing, I hate everyone. I want to never see these people again. Physical symptoms. So the physical symptoms can be all across the board. I watch videos of people talking about Physical symptoms can be all across the board. I watch videos of people talking about how they would have like tingling and burning sensations throughout their whole body. Muscle pain, muscle spasms, stomach aches. I have had digestive issues for a few years now, largely due to the pandemic. So that was the initial stressor right outside of work. And then you get muscle tension, which can cause headaches, migraines, all kinds of stuff. So usually pain in some kind of form, whether it's systemic, internal, whatever, usually pain of some kind is going to be part of it. Spasms, twitching, that sort of thing. Um, decreased personal satisfaction. So this is like, again, a super clinical way of saying that, like, you just kind of don't care anymore. You're checked out. Right. And this was valorized, um, with the pandemic and the rise of remote work with quiet quitting. Right. So if you are, if, if quiet quitting sounds appealing to you, you're probably disconnected or disengaged or unengaged at work. Increased anxiety. So anxiety is a natural response to being chronically upregulated, which is something that I was experiencing. And it was also, anxiety is often an early warning sign. It's one of the, often one of the first things that people recognize is like, oh, I'm just feeling anxious, but they still have their energy and focus. And finally, insomnia. Insomnia was one that I totally missed. I thought I had insomnia just because I was excited and I was working really hard. But it turns out when you dedicate your brain to overriding your physical needs for weeks or months or years on end you get in the habit of working even when you're exhausted and so your brain is like okay I guess this is what we have to do now so we don't need sleep as much. So insomnia was a huge red flag for me that I missed. So here are some other signs that you might miss. So in my research, one thing that came up every now and then was new changes, right? So you might lose your patience with people and become more irritable with colleagues or loved ones, and it can result in conflicts. So if you find yourself like experiencing new kinds of conflicts or fights either at home or at work, shouting matches, that kind of thing, that can also be a neurodiversity thing because burnout for autistic people, autistic burnout usually, not usually, can include things like having a verbal meltdown and just like laying into someone or imploding. So there's exploding and imploding. But even if you're not autistic or otherwise neurodiverse, you might still end up with more friction with people that you normally wouldn't have friction with. Again, I mentioned physical symptoms. So the muscle tension and spasms. So like if you just like sit down and you're like kind of twitching, that means that your body is like crackling with energy and it's ready to explode. And you might have suppressed that, but you need to discharge that energy. And we'll talk about that in a minute. But the preview is mindfulness, yoga, exercise, and time in nature to discharge that energy. Numbness. So I talked about apathy and then there is feeling of disengagement, but numbness, if you don't know how you feel, that is because you have habitually suppressed how you feel because it is like an alarm going off and you're like, just turn the alarm off because I got to keep going. So general numbness, whether it's physical, emotional, or otherwise, is another warning sign, a red flag that it's like, oh, well, you're just ignoring your hunger and your irritation and your fatigue. So your brain eventually just kind of turns the signal off. New or magnified addictive behaviors such as alcoholism, gaming, porn addiction, that sort of stuff. These are what are called self-soothing behaviors, where you're trying to escape and get some dopamine hits in any way that you can. I should have added social media. Doom scrolling is another quintessential warning sign, especially if it's a new behavior. Another thing is new or unusual feelings of laziness or inadequacy. So a lot of people that burn out are really hard workers. One of the careers that is most susceptible to burnout are health care workers and other caregiving roles. And so these are people that work really hard and then they're used to working really hard and they're like, oh well I need to work 12-hour days so on and so forth. In my case I used to do a lot more around the house. In my backyard I built a fence, I redid the siding on my shop, I used to have so much more energy than I have now and I couldn't do those things right now. I might never get those back. But if you feel lazy, that is, laziness is a form of shame or guilt when you believe, either at an unconscious or conscious or emotional level, you believe, I should be doing more. I should, I should, I should. And so if you feel lazy or you feel inadequate, that is your brain's, you know, warning sign, hey, you're slacking off, you should keep going. And if you're starting to feel that, that means that there's you're drifting from what you believe you should be doing, which is not necessarily what you actually should be doing. But what you think you should be doing is drifting from what you actually are doing. And what's happening is your body and mind are unconsciously starting to tap the brakes, right? So pay attention to that, that breaking, right? And then finally, self abusive behaviors that are related towards apathy towards yourself. I don't give a shit anymore. I'm just going to eat this pizza. I don't give a shit anymore. I'm going to drink another beer. That kind of thing can result in, you know what, I kind of hate everything anyways, so who cares? I remember I met someone once and we went out to get pizza and he was a bigger guy and he just literally said, I want the most unhealthy pizza I can eat. And I'm like, okay, that's weird. But that is that like, you know, eating can be a form of self abuse or cutting or whatever. There's all kinds of stuff. And so I need to say that because we're, because I'm mentioning medical conditions, this is not medical advice. This is just the research that I have done that I am sharing with you. All right, the physiology of burnout. So I mentioned earlier that burnout is recognized in the ICD-10 and ICD-11. It is a medical condition. It is a medically recognized condition. It's not just a, oh, it's all in your head. It's not just, you know, I'm sad or whatever, it is a full-on full body medical condition. It is mind, body, gut, everything. So elevated cortisol levels. Cortisol is the stress hormone and so what can happen with burnout is the prolonged stress and chronic fatigue will raise your cortisol levels and your body will actually tune the amount of cortisol it's producing so that the cortisol level stays higher than it should, which means that you're basically permanently in a state of stress. And that can take weeks or months to change back. Decreased heart rate variability. So heart rate variability is the change in your heart rate on a beat-by-beat basis. Normally your heart rate varies up to 200 milliseconds between heartbeats, but it is a very reliable indicator. The lower your heart rate variability, the higher your stress level. your heart rate variability the higher your stress level. And actually some of the nicer Fitbits and stuff will actually measure your heart rate variability and it can be a reliable indicator of stress. I will say though that my heart rate variability was still on the upward trend when I burned out so it's not necessarily a guarantee because I was doing more stuff to take care of myself like meditation and so on but even still my heart rate variability was okay when I burned out. Increased inflammation. So chronic stress can also lead to widespread inflammation in the body which inflammation has markers in the blood. An immunologist can test for inflammation markers. And basically inflammation means that your body is in survival mode. It's ready to attack any problems such as disease or parasites or whatever. And so chronic inflammation is also directly related to increased cortisol levels, as is reduced immune function. So these are all correlated because if you are in survival mode, your body is going to sacrifice long-term self-care in order to protect itself over the short term, which means keep the immune system tuned, keep the inflammation going, but the thing is, is because your body is not taking care of itself, you're actually going to be more susceptible to illness. I probably didn't say that quite right, but I think you take my meaning. Cortisol, inflammation, and immune system are all interrelated, and you'll end up with disorders of those. Sleep patterns, I already mentioned that so I don't need to mention again, and then decreased dopamine in certain parts of the brain. We'll get into that more in just a moment when we talk about the neurology of burnout. So aside from just the physiological and subjective experience of burnout, there are changes in the brain that are associated with burnout. So most notably the prefrontal cortex, the PFC, the part of the brain right behind your forehead, right above your eyes, this is the most modern, most sophisticated part of your brain that is associated with things like self-control, executive function, and empathy, and so on, you will end up with deterioration of the prefrontal cortex is associated with burnout. Now, one thing to keep in mind is that a combination of yoga and mindfulness meditation can actually thicken the PFC and increase its functional connectivity to the rest of the brain. So mindfulness and yoga and exercise in general are one of the key ingredients to treating and recovering from burnout in my experience. Again, I cannot give this as medical advice. I'm saying what has worked for me. Gray matter changes. So gray matter is the part of the brain that does the processing. White matter is the part of the brain that does the processing. White matter is the wiring of the brain. So gray matter has been noted to decrease in volume in certain regions of the brain as associated with burnout. Similarly, hippocampal changes, which has to do with regulation, self-regulation, that sort of thing, ditto for that. And then finally neurotransmitter changes, not just dopamine but serotonin, norepinephrine, which is adrenaline, and so on. Disorders of those neurotransmitters and other associated hormones and regulating hormones are all associated with burnout. So when I say that burnout is a systemic disorder, it is not just like, oh, I'm tired from work. It is a full body disorder. It is a full body response to chronic stress and chronic overwork. Okay, so that all sounds like a nightmare, and it is. Now, so how do you recover from burnout? This takes, this is one of the things that I'll say is, all of this is easier said than done, unfortunately. But that being said, there is a huge laundry list of things that you can do to recover from burnout. And beyond this list, I have some very specific ideas, and we'll talk about recovery, treatment, and then prevention in the future. So first is seek support. I am very fortunate in that I have a really good friend of mine that I've known for a really long time. She found out that she was on the spectrum a couple of years before I did. And she was, I've mentioned her in my autism video. She's the one that I texted. I was like, do you think I'm autistic and she's like you could be and so she's like my go-to friend to talk about this stuff because we're the weird ones in our friend group right and so when I realized that burnout was happening I texted her I was like hey what's going on here and she's like yeah what changes have you made? And I was like, well, I started blocking people on LinkedIn. She's like, good for you. So the short version is, if you have someone who is familiar with it, that really helps. My fiance is also familiar with burnout. She burned out from school, right? From college, grad school, that is also a very common thing. And so just as I was coming to terms with the burnout, it's like, Oh, like this happens, she's been, uh, my fiance and my friend have both been very, very helpful and very patient with me. So finding support, finding people that you like, admire, and trust who can reassure you and just say like, yes, um, this is what it's like. Uh, that is very critical. Um, reducing stress. So again, it sounds very clinical taking steps to reduce stress. This is what it's like. That is very critical. Reducing stress. So again, it sounds very clinical. Taking steps to reduce stress. Like this means making some really big life changes sometimes, right? In some cases, if you have mild burnout, it could be a matter of like, oh, well, I need to turn my laptop off by 7 p.m. For other people, it means throwing your laptop in the garbage bin, which is what I did. I didn't physically throw my laptop, I just gave it back to my workplace when I quit. But quitting jobs, changing jobs, or other structural changes to your life, whatever it takes to reduce stress, that's a thing that you might need to do. I started new behaviors, or I restarted behaviors, yoga and meditation, going to the gym more, going outside more. Boundaries. Setting boundaries can be really difficult. I've talked about those in previous videos. And so basically, boundaries are you tell someone no. You tell work no, you tell family no, you tell your children no. Whoever it is, you tell someone no. You tell work no, you tell family no, you tell your children no. Whoever it is you tell someone no, I'm not going to do that, you know, let's let's create some distance between what you want and what I want, what you need and what I need. One big problem, especially with some of us, is that people don't respect boundaries. And in those cases, my recommendation is banish those people from your life, if at all those cases, my recommendation is banish those people from your life, if at all possible. Obviously, you can't banish everyone from your life, you can't banish your children from your life. So in those cases, you do have to work harder to establish and enforce boundaries. But one of the key lessons is we teach people how to treat us. And so if someone doesn't respect your boundaries, like you really got to dig in your heels sometimes. And as I mentioned earlier in the video, I've had workplaces where boundaries were not even remotely acknowledged. It's more typical in older men to not respect boundaries, to think that, oh, boundaries are just a suggestion. Boundaries are for wimps. I'm in control here. I'm gonna tell you what to do. I'm gonna crack the whip. I actually blew up at someone who used that term. I'm gonna crack the whip. I said no the hell you're not. You can see that didn't go well. That person is no longer in my life. Thank God. So anyways, changing work environment. Like I said, quit if you need to. I will also add the caveat, I'm, quit if you need to. I will also add the caveat, I'm not telling you what to do. I quit and it worked for me. That being said, I have talked with friends and my fiance and other people. More often than not, if you work in a healthy work environment, just telling people that you've got too much going on, they should respect that. Not always, but they should and so if you say hey, like, you know, I need I need some additional boundaries I remember before I quit my day job. I talked to the director of our group and I was like man I just I can't keep up with everything. He's like Oh Like just ignore half your email, right? If you don't respond and someone doesn't say anything like it or if you don't respond within three days and they don't say anything they probably didn't need your help anyways I'm like really that's it you can do that and it's like okay and I tried it and it works so there are things you can do to change your work environment don't make any assumptions that you must do everything this is a weird thing that I think neurotypicals just intrinsically understand and I don't know where they learned this, but most people who succeed in the workplace ignore most of what comes their way. I don't know how that's possible or why that's a default, but it is. And so ignore emails, ignore calls, ignore messages. The more you ignore people, the more they realize you're not available. So by the time I quit my day job, I had actually gotten really good at ignoring stuff and paying attention to only that which I knew was directly relevant to my responsibilities. And that actually really helped a lot. Now that didn't prevent the bullying from happening. And when my workplace decided not to do anything about the bullying, I said, okay, time for me to go. Finally practice or, or not finally, second to last, practice mindfulness. So mindful meditation, yoga, deep breathing, all of that stuff, life changing, game changing for me. Mindfulness was the first thing that helped me, one, reconnect with my body, as well as the yoga, but also to fix my sleep. Because when you're exhausted, all you want as the yoga, but also to fix my sleep because when you're exhausted all you want is more sleep but then your brain wakes you up. So mindfulness, mindfulness, mindfulness. This was the biggest thing for me. Excuse me. And then finally seek professional help. Whether it's a therapist, a counselor. I actually have found that groups like you know formal groups are actually really helpful, whether it's grief or stress or various 12-step programs. So that is like, I would say that's like semi-professional help because it is highly organized and highly structured. But for me personally, peer support is better than going to an individual professional. I often have a really hard time trusting individual professionals, especially having known some of them. Put it this way, some professionals are not doing it for the right reasons, and I'll leave it at that. So group support, peer support, to me is, I consider that a kind of professional help, and for me it has been incredibly helpful. All right, so some more specific ideas to really get down to the nitty-gritty. One, quit or change jobs. So earlier this year I quit my day job and I'm doing YouTube and Patreon full-time and for me that was the right thing. Obviously that path is not going to work for everyone. For some people it's a matter of changing, you know, just maybe changing companies, changing team, maybe changing direction a little bit, but otherwise keeping things the same. For me, it was about, I actually don't care about, you know, the stuff that I'm working on in my day job anymore. I care about our artificial intelligence and life and philosophy. So I had a drastic misalignment with my values and my mission in life with working the nine to five. And of course, everyone, you might roll your eyes, oh, well, that's everybody. And that's true. For many of us throughout a good chunk of our career, we have a job that's just a job, right? Not everyone can work what they're passionate about, but because I was so passionate about something else, that was a really big, you know, point of friction. Restructuring your life strategically. And so what I mean by restructuring your life is write down what you do. When do you go to sleep? When do you wake up? When and where do you eat? Who do you spend time with? And so what you'll find is that there are patterns and habits in there, and there are forces or trends that kind of coerce those things. Like say for instance, you skip breakfast because you're always on the go. Well, it might require a structural change to say, actually I'm gonna prioritize having breakfast because I know that I feel better when I do. I don't, I actually feel better when I skip breakfast because I do intermittent fasting and giving my digestion system a chance to rest actually really helps me feel much better. And then because then after I eat I have siesta time. I go into a food coma when I eat and it's great. Other structural changes could be, you know, if you have a job that requires you to be on call, get a different job that doesn't require you to be on call or negotiate boundaries so that you're only on call half the time, stuff like that. That's what I mean by restructuring your life. It could also mean physically moving. If you live in the city, cities are proven far and wide to increase stress levels. Move to the countryside, that's what I'm gonna do. have are proven far and wide to increase stress levels. Move to the countryside, that's what I'm gonna do. As soon as things settle down, like we're gonna move to the countryside. So other words, whatever you do, make substantive changes. And sometimes these substantive changes require compromises or sacrifice. And I don't mean sacrifice like don't sacrifice your free time, don't sacrifice your sanity. I mean, sacrifice your ambition, right? Because if your ambition is gonna kill you, it's not worth it. It's that simple. Another thing is inner work. So when I say inner work, I mean, this is what you might associate with like going to therapy or whatever. For me, inner work means reading books, meditating, reflecting on my inner world and making those changes to my own beliefs, my own feelings and healing from cultural baggage and past traumas, but also focusing on aligning with my values and my real needs. Reconnecting with your body can be a very painful experience because, as I mentioned earlier in this video, we habituate out of responding to our body and eventually the signals go away. And then reconnecting, de-minimizing that can be very painful. Like when you get in touch with all the tension in your shoulders, it hurts. When I first did that, I woke up every night for weeks with just incredible muscle pain that had been there all along, but as I started de-minimizing it, it was so painful I had to wake up and do yoga every night in order to work through that tension. Unplugging. Delete social media and get off your phone. My phone is over there and it is powered off. I power on my phone at most once per day. Usually if I am going somewhere, like driving somewhere like further than a few minutes from home or somewhere that I don't go often, that's one of the only times that I use my phone. Otherwise, I only turn it on while I'm at home if I'm expecting a call, which is never, because I'm a millennial, or if there's a specific thing that I need my phone for. But otherwise, meet up and email and stuff, I get on my computer, and then when I'm not at my computer, I turn it off. And it's really weird, because we're so used to using our computers and phones, it's like, well, now what do I do? So what I do, here's specifically what I do. I don't have my notepad here, but here. Here's a piece of paper to represent my notepad. What I would do is I would turn off all my electronics and just sit there and be bored for a minute. Like, what should I do? And I'm like, oh, I need to do my taxes. So I jot down do taxes. Oh, I need to mow the yard okay let me go mow the yard and so by doing that by getting your brain out of electronics land by unplugging that can be a really great way to get away from screens and of course the science is unequivocal screen time is bad for you watching TV and playing video games is probably lower on the list, but certainly social media, that is really bad for you. News, doom scrolling, horrible for you. Another thing is join social groups. Meetup.com has been my like salvation, and I shouldn't use that term because there is no such thing as a salvation fantasy. It's not like one magic bullet is going to fix everything in your life. However, that being said, I have been very fortunate to find some really interesting and good and wholesome people through joining new social groups. So whether it's through your church or through meetup.com or wherever you get your social groups from, it is worth it. And one thing to keep in mind, because I'm such a perfectionist and workaholic, I'm like, oh, I need to go integrate with this group immediately. And that's not how it works. In fact, it actually takes about six months of regular interaction to integrate with a new social group. So be patient with yourself. And this is advice I need to take. Take a vacation if you can. Every time I've gone on a vacation with my fianc\u00e9, it has been life-changing. Even if it's just a few days away, right? Go to the mountains where you don't have any internet signal. Go to the beach where there's literally nothing productive to do except lay on the beach. Those are examples of things that I have done that every time I came back I had my priorities straight in my head like, oh this thing, this battle that I'm fighting over here, totally not worth it. I'm gonna walk away. Finally, reconnecting with friends and family, or not finally, reconnecting with friends and family is really important. So one thing that I realized as I was approaching burnout is that I have friends that I've had for 10 plus years, 15 years, that I don't see that often. And I don't talk to that often. And so I just made it a point like, oh, right, they don't invite me to things anymore because I haven't showed up to anything for years. So I'd message them like, hey, man, what's going on? Do you want to go out to the range today? And sure enough, my friends are like, Hey, it's good to see you. And we had a great time. Um, and then reconnecting with family, ditto. Um, eventually what happens if you stop responding to invitations, the invitation stopped coming. And actually in a previous video recently, I said that I was grateful for that. And that was actually a sign of burnout. That apathy, that numbness, that disconnection was actually a sign of burnout. That apathy, that numbness, that disconnection was actually a sign, a precursor of my burnout. Remove certain people from your life. So some people are just addicted to drama. Some people are addicted to crossing boundaries, to being manipulative, to getting control of you, to whatever. If those people exist, remove them from your life because they are going to contribute to your burnout. And in some cases that means like getting a divorce. That's what I did. You know, my ex was, would not let me rest. She would actually start fights if she saw me resting. And so of course, like I'm already in a state, I was already in a state of burnout. This was years ago. I was already in a state of burnout. And then I have my spouse yelling at me for trying to take care of myself. So I was burned out from work and then burned out from home. So what happened after a while, I told her, I'm not gonna live like this. I am done living like this. And she was like, what do you mean? And I'm like, we're done. And then finally, rest, rest, rest. We'll talk a little bit more about the guilt and shame that comes with rest in just a moment. So I'm not gonna beat this point to death. So how long does it take? This is the most disappointing and difficult aspect of learning about burnout. You might have a good day here and there and you're like, oh I'm done, I'm better, and then you overdo it as I do and as many perfectionists do, and then you're tired again and you're back to square one. So looking back to the first time that I really burned out, it took about six months of doing nothing but playing video games and doing as little as possible every day in order to recover and then as I started to come back to life I started cleaning up the yard I just had more energy and I was inspired to get outside more. Fortunately this time I caught it earlier and I'm more well equipped so I'm not in as bad of shape as I was the first time that I burned out or the second time that I burned out but I didn't know what was happening back then. I didn't have a word for it. So it typically takes 6 to 18 months to recover from burnout. This is just looking at examples across the internet. Six months typically that's a minimum. I did watch a couple videos with therapists and counselors who said that they have had clients that recover in a month. And certainly there are YouTubers, there's a, what is it? Simple Zen Habits, or no, Simple Happy Zen. She's a YouTuber, she takes a month off. Autism from the inside, he takes a month off. And so that can be, that's like pre-burnout, right? If you can sense that burnout is coming and you do nothing for a month, you do self-care and disconnect for a month, that seems to be good enough to head off burnout at the pass. In other cases though, particularly for really high-performing people, type A personalities, workaholics, sometimes I've found plenty of stories of people that took four to six years to recover from burnout because they got so profoundly sick, because they worked through their burnout for years. So imagine being burned out for years and then still continuing to raise a family, to be a career person, to just push and push and push. And that's when you end up with the autoimmune disorders and people that end up with permanent, either impairments or disabilities because of that. So one point of advice that I would give is if you suspect that you're burning out or suspect that you're burned out, take action sooner rather than later, which is why I'm making this video. I wanted to just put together all the information that I had. Now, one thing that I have noticed is that two years seems to be a little bit more typical for high risk people. So particularly people with a any kind of neuro spiciness, any kind of neurodiversity, two years seems to be a little bit more common. So now that being said, there are also examples of people on the spectrum that burn out and do nothing for six months, so that's a little bit on the shorter end, but for instance my friend that I texted, she's like she did nothing for two years and I'm like oh yeah I didn't really hear from you for a couple years. So that's what had happened was she was working a typical nine to five. She burned out, realized that she was on the spectrum and then ended a relationship, moved, changed careers, like did everything that I'm recommending and everything that I'm doing. You got to make big changes to your life, but it took her two years to recover. And there are plenty of other YouTubers that have talked about burnout that took two years to recover. I think Simple Happy Zen took two years to recover as well. And as I mentioned just a moment ago, high-performing people tend to push through their burnout for longer, which can result in more profound illness and much longer recovery times. So in that respect, those of us who are more sensitive and burnout sooner, that can actually be a saving grace. And that like, oh, well, actually, I'm really sensitive and fragile. And so I burned out quickly. And it wasn't as bad. Another thing is that burnout can happen at any time. There are teenagers that burn out. There are 20-somethings that burn out. There are people that don't burn out until their 30s, 40s, 50s, even 60s before they burn out. So it varies widely. You can burn out at any time. And again, whether or not you're working a typical job. One thing that I had a hard time finding information on was what is daily life like with burnout? And I found this this stock image of a very tired apathetic looking woman wearing a hoodie laying on the couch. And this is the mood of burnout. Your energy and mood can vary a lot from day to day. Right now I have a little bit more energy than I have had and I really wanted to make this video, so that's me, but I guarantee you after I make this video and get it published I'm gonna eat lunch and I will be that. I will be that that person on the couch just watching Netflix and YouTube probably for the rest of the day. When you are in a state of burnout, you have limited spoons. And if you're not familiar with the spoon analogy, it is for people with disabilities. And the idea is that if you're normal and healthy, you have a large reserve of spoons and basically you spend a spoon in order to do something like go to the grocery store or you spend a spoon in order to do something like go to the grocery store or you spend a spoon to go to work. But if you are in a state of burnout or otherwise have some kind of disability or something that makes you more sensitive one, you have fewer spoons than other people and the tasks that don't cost other people spoons might cost you spoons, might cost you a lot of spoons. So anyways, the spoon analogy is, it's like, okay, well, before burnout, I could like build a fence, I could go to my day job and then come home, go to the hardware store, get a bunch of wood, go build a fence and be basically doing stuff from 7 a.m. until 8 p.m., day in and day out, and then sleep like a log and do it all again the next day. So I basically had unlimited spoons when I was 25. Now at 37 I have like three spoons. I might not ever get them back and that is a part of the boredom and frustration and a lot of sadness and grief. I forgot to add the grief down here number five. Frequent crashes. So what happens when you're in a state of burnout is that you might feel okay, and then you go to the grocery store and then you get back from the grocery store and realize that you are now profoundly tired and you need a nap. So that's what I call a crash. You might not actually fall asleep, you might just end up kind of in this state on the couch where you're kind of not able to do anything, but you just need to rest. Also, in my experience, being in a state of burnout, usually I get a couple hours of productivity a day, and by productivity, I don't mean like work, work, work, but I mean just like where I'm functional, right? and so right now I use that as time to catch up on email interact with my patreon supporters make a video or to work on my novel and then you know maybe get to the grocery store or take care of stuff around the house and then I'm done for the rest of the day so that might be like at most I get maybe five or six hours of being active and then I'm done for the rest of the day. So that might be like, at most I get maybe five or six hours of being active and then I have to spend the rest of the day resting and recovering. And so then the emotions that come up with burnout. One is boredom and frustration. Yesterday, for instance, I made it a point to just have a lot of low-key activities. I played some video games, I read some books, I watched some YouTube, I took a bath, right? And then it was three o'clock and I had done everything that I could and I was out of stuff to do so it's like, okay well now I'm just bored. I don't have the mental energy left to do anything, I certainly don't have the physical energy left, so what do I do? I just like basically sit on the couch with the dog for a while and that's really bored and it can also be really frustrating especially because I remember how much energy I used to have and that Is where the grief comes in because it's like oh, I'm actually living with a disability now And I don't mean that like capital D disability like I'm on government assistance, but mentally saying this feels like a disability That's a that's a tough pill to swallow. And then finally, there's guilt, shame, and embarrassment that comes with that of saying, wow, I should be able to do this. I used to be able to do this. I can't do that anymore. And that comes with the cultural baggage around work and productivity. Speaking of, how do we prevent future burnout? So we're almost at the end of the video. So if you have experienced burnout or are about to experience burnout or are in the middle of burnout or just recovering from burnout, one of the videos that I watched said, when you are healthy, you have a thousand wishes. When you are unhealthy, you have one wish. Right now I have one wish. Right now I have one wish which is to be healthy again. And in the future now that I have a word for it because this is I think the third time I've burned out, I don't ever want to experience burnout again. Three times is way too many. One time was too many but I didn't have a word for it at the time. So one one of the things that can happen, and I've read a bunch of books, so the books that I read, one was Do Nothing by Celeste Headley, number two was Laziness Does Not Exist by Devin Price, and number three was Burnout by Emily Nagoski. So I read three books on burnout. I did a workaholic about burnout in preparation for burning out, and it still didn't help. But one of the things that they talk about is changing your orientation towards work and your attitudes towards productivity. And so what do I mean by this? What is it what is your orientation towards work? For many of us our work is our identity and so what I've been working on doing is de-identifying with my labor. My identity is more about the things that I enjoy and the values that I have now. And then changing attitudes towards productivity. This idea came from Sorella Moore when she was talking about how she has redefined productivity and so now she instead of saying like making money is productive no eating well is productive playing is productive connecting with loved ones is productive so redefining work and productivity is one of the key things that you can do and this is echoed in those books that I mentioned redefining what success looks like and I mentioned this earlier when I talked about reducing your ambition, right? And what I mean by that is like, oh wait, I've actually got a good enough house. I don't need a bigger house. Or I don't need a fancy car. Or I don't need these materialistic expectations. So letting go of materialism, which should have been obvious for me because I studied Zen, but because I live in America I got stuck in that materialistic mindset. And you know I can blame a lot of other things, but it's up to me to turn that off. So redefining what success looks like, particularly from a status perspective and a financial perspective. That is a key thing, which is why like, after I realized like, actually, my support on Patreon is sustainable. This is my job now. I don't have a single boss. That's great. I am not beholden to any corporation or any one person. No one person can fire me, so I have a lot more control. Remember, lack of control was one of the key contributing factors to burnout. Number three, challenge assumptions and cultural baggage. So this is all wrapped up in like, okay, what assumptions do I have about me? What assumptions do I have about productivity? So for instance, what I mean by that is, as an extroverted man, I have had the assumption forever that I should have more friends. I should be more popular. I should, you know, be X, Y, and Z, and as I'm coming to terms with who I am, I'm actually a hermit, right? Like, because I'm HSP, because I'm gifted, that really sets me apart from most people and so I have to be very very picky about who I spend time with and the and the social groups that I associate with. And even then I have to kind of be careful about what I share because, and this has happened on plenty of my YouTube videos, where people are like, wow you're really pretentious because you use big words and I'm like, no, like I'm gifted. I find words fascinating. And just my use, my vocabulary can make some people feel insecure, which goes back to those norm violations. And they feel like it's OK to bully or criticize someone just for making them feel inadequate or whatever is going on in their heads. So by by challenging these assumptions, and I've done this by watching videos about people who live in a different way so I've been watching a lot of cottagecore videos. I've been watching Sorella Moore who she lives one way and I just discovered Jana Jenten or Jana Jenten the Swedish woman who lives in the middle of nowhere and I'm like that is actually how I want to live and making, like challenging it so that it's okay for me to say, actually I only need a couple friends, and that's fine. And to extend this further, living more authentically in accordance with your personality, your physical limitations, your body, and also very importantly, your values. I really struggle with corporate America, and so when I realized, it almost felt like a dream, when it's like, actually, no, I need to never work for a corporation again. That was a big revelation for me, and it took me weeks to come to terms with that. So again, take your life in a different direction, right? Sometimes that means unplugging, sometimes that means moving, sometimes that means changing your relationships, so on and so forth. Learn to say no first, often, and by default. Many of us are conditioned to say yes automatically. One book called that human giver syndrome. I think that was Burnout by Emily Nagoski. So human giver syndrome is that you're only allowed to say yes and if you say no people blow up at you because no is not acceptable. And if my recommendation is if someone doesn't accept no, banish them from your life. And by learning to say no first and by default, that has made my life much better. Especially as someone who is well-known in the space of AI, I have a lot of people asking for my time. And it's weird how entitled some people are. And when I say no, they're like, well, what about this? It's like, I said no. And I will actually block people who don't take no for an answer. And in fact, I deleted my LinkedIn because that's all I got was people who wouldn't take no for an answer and making offers that I didn't want to take. And I said, I would say, sign up for my Patreon. Here are the options. And they're like, well, what about this other? I said, here are the options. And if they don't like those options, they can take a hike. And then finally, be weird, queer, eccentric, offbeat, or whatever is your truth. By living more authentically, by living more to your truth, I think that that is the best way to prevent future burnout. So, this was a lot. I hope it was helpful. Thank you and please consider supporting me on Patreon. All of my content is ad free and free on the internet and if you support me on Patreon I can do this indefinitely. So patreon.com slash Dave Schapp. Thanks for watching. Cheers everybody. Wow that was an hour. But yeah, so patreon.com slash Dave Schapp. Thanks for watching. Cheers, everybody. Wow, that was an hour.", "chunks": [{"timestamp": [0.0, 6.34], "text": " Hey everyone, David Shapiro here with a less fun video topic, but it is a very"}, {"timestamp": [6.34, 13.2], "text": " necessary topic. Basically I'm making this video because like my autism video"}, {"timestamp": [13.2, 18.18], "text": " that you may or may not have seen, I haven't been able to find like"}, {"timestamp": [18.18, 25.88], "text": " one good source to really talk about this all in one place. So here is burnout 101,"}, {"timestamp": [25.88, 29.86], "text": " everything that you need to know about burnout."}, {"timestamp": [29.86, 30.7], "text": " Overview."}, {"timestamp": [30.7, 35.7], "text": " So real quick, this is in no specific order,"}, {"timestamp": [36.18, 38.88], "text": " some of the topics we're gonna cover in today's video,"}, {"timestamp": [38.88, 41.08], "text": " but just so that you know what to expect."}, {"timestamp": [41.08, 43.16], "text": " We're gonna talk about what is burnout,"}, {"timestamp": [43.16, 44.88], "text": " what are the risk factors for burnout,"}, {"timestamp": [44.88, 49.36], "text": " what are the causes, and then also importantly the recovery. How long"}, {"timestamp": [49.36, 53.98], "text": " does it take and how do you prevent it in the future? If you're here you might"}, {"timestamp": [53.98, 58.52], "text": " be in the middle of burnout like myself or you might be worried about burnout"}, {"timestamp": [58.52, 62.1], "text": " which I was worried about burnout for six months until I finally did burnout."}, {"timestamp": [62.1, 65.16], "text": " So here's everything I've learned in the lead up"}, {"timestamp": [65.16, 69.28], "text": " and recovery stage and learning phase of burnout."}, {"timestamp": [70.12, 73.28], "text": " All right, so first, what is burnout?"}, {"timestamp": [73.28, 74.6], "text": " The simple definition is,"}, {"timestamp": [74.6, 76.56], "text": " burnout is a state of emotional, physical,"}, {"timestamp": [76.56, 79.2], "text": " and mental exhaustion caused by prolonged"}, {"timestamp": [79.2, 81.38], "text": " and chronic work-related stress."}, {"timestamp": [81.38, 84.56], "text": " It is characterized by feelings of cynicism, detachment,"}, {"timestamp": [84.56, 85.84], "text": " reduced performance and"}, {"timestamp": [85.84, 91.36], "text": " productivity, and decreased personal satisfaction. This is very clinical, but like turn all those up"}, {"timestamp": [91.36, 97.12], "text": " to 11. And that's what it feels like. Burnout can have negative effects on an individual's mental"}, {"timestamp": [97.12, 101.44], "text": " and physical health, as well as their job performance and personal relationships. Yes,"}, {"timestamp": [101.44, 105.64], "text": " also turn that up to 11. It feels sort of like depression but"}, {"timestamp": [105.64, 111.22], "text": " it's often worse in some ways. It feels literally more just like your smoke"}, {"timestamp": [111.22, 116.9], "text": " and ashes, whereas depression is kind of like just more of a flatness. Now one"}, {"timestamp": [116.9, 122.06], "text": " thing that is very critical to point out is that burnout is recognized in"}, {"timestamp": [122.06, 126.96], "text": " the ICD-10 and 11. So the ICD-10 and 11, those are like the"}, {"timestamp": [127.92, 134.64], "text": " global standards of recognizing medical conditions. So burnout is not just a thing that's in society,"}, {"timestamp": [134.64, 140.0], "text": " it is a medically recognized condition and we'll get into the physiology and neurology of it in a"}, {"timestamp": [140.0, 147.48], "text": " little bit. Okay, so who is at risk of burnout? What are the primary risk factors?"}, {"timestamp": [147.48, 150.56], "text": " So number one, high workload."}, {"timestamp": [150.56, 153.12], "text": " Plain and simple, if you're doing a lot of work,"}, {"timestamp": [153.12, 155.2], "text": " that can be a contributing factor."}, {"timestamp": [155.2, 156.48], "text": " Now that being said,"}, {"timestamp": [159.12, 161.16], "text": " the first time I burned out was,"}, {"timestamp": [161.16, 162.84], "text": " actually every time that I burned out,"}, {"timestamp": [162.84, 164.12], "text": " bullying was related,"}, {"timestamp": [164.12, 166.92], "text": " and we'll talk about that in a minute."}, {"timestamp": [166.92, 169.4], "text": " It's not necessarily always high workload,"}, {"timestamp": [169.4, 171.28], "text": " although it can be."}, {"timestamp": [171.28, 172.96], "text": " Lack of control."}, {"timestamp": [172.96, 177.2], "text": " So if you are not, if your needs"}, {"timestamp": [177.2, 178.84], "text": " are not being respected at work,"}, {"timestamp": [178.84, 181.28], "text": " this is one of the key contributing factors."}, {"timestamp": [181.28, 184.6], "text": " And for me, this was more often"}, {"timestamp": [184.6, 188.2], "text": " the primary contributing factor and it was because"}, {"timestamp": [188.2, 191.16], "text": " as the smartest person on the team so much of the"}, {"timestamp": [191.16, 193.72], "text": " burden fell to me and so it's like well Dave you're"}, {"timestamp": [193.72, 195.68], "text": " the only one who can solve this so we need you right"}, {"timestamp": [195.68, 199.0], "text": " now my last boss at my last company recognized"}, {"timestamp": [199.0, 201.52], "text": " that and actually worked very hard to protect my"}, {"timestamp": [201.52, 204.8], "text": " time he's like no I need you like well rested"}, {"timestamp": [204.8, 225.12], "text": " and so he was very tactical about when he used my level of expertise. But most companies and most managers are not that smart. Most companies will say, oh, well, you saw my problem last time, so they'll come straight back to you. And then when you tell them no, they usually freak out. I literally at a previous job had a manager that I"}, {"timestamp": [225.12, 228.7], "text": " didn't even report to like just have a friggin meltdown on the phone when I"}, {"timestamp": [228.7, 235.24], "text": " said I can't do that right now. So yeah like so lack of control. Lack of social"}, {"timestamp": [235.24, 240.4], "text": " support. Feeling isolated or unsupported by colleagues or supervisors. So that's"}, {"timestamp": [240.4, 244.72], "text": " kind of the same thing. Perfectionism. Having high personal standards like you"}, {"timestamp": [244.72, 247.42], "text": " must constantly meet can contribute to burnout."}, {"timestamp": [247.42, 249.94], "text": " Now, childhood trauma is one of the key causes"}, {"timestamp": [249.94, 251.7], "text": " of perfectionism later in life."}, {"timestamp": [252.52, 255.08], "text": " So I'll probably need to do an entire video"}, {"timestamp": [255.08, 257.08], "text": " on perfectionism and childhood trauma,"}, {"timestamp": [257.08, 258.96], "text": " but we'll put a pin in that for now."}, {"timestamp": [258.96, 261.92], "text": " Type A personality, so type A personality"}, {"timestamp": [261.92, 265.6], "text": " or being a workaholic or being a high-energy person,"}, {"timestamp": [265.6, 270.56], "text": " these are also often, not always often, related to perfectionism and childhood"}, {"timestamp": [270.56, 276.08], "text": " trauma. Whatever it is, workaholism is valorized in this society. Basically"}, {"timestamp": [276.08, 281.52], "text": " workaholism is the only addiction that we praise. It's the only good addiction,"}, {"timestamp": [281.52, 285.0], "text": " but it's still an addiction. Poor job fit."}, {"timestamp": [285.0, 288.28], "text": " When a job does not match your skills, interests, or values."}, {"timestamp": [288.28, 293.28], "text": " So this was a big reason that I ultimately quit my startup"}, {"timestamp": [294.0, 297.88], "text": " and all startups is because the corporate world"}, {"timestamp": [297.88, 300.36], "text": " does not align with my personal values."}, {"timestamp": [300.36, 303.96], "text": " And so every day that I'm working for a corporation"}, {"timestamp": [303.96, 306.24], "text": " or a startup, it chafes. It's"}, {"timestamp": [306.24, 310.08], "text": " like this isn't actually good for me. This doesn't align with my"}, {"timestamp": [310.08, 316.36], "text": " purpose and my reason for being. Personal life stressors. Obviously, stress at home"}, {"timestamp": [316.36, 321.24], "text": " can be a huge contributing factor. If you've got children, if you've got an"}, {"timestamp": [321.24, 329.6], "text": " unsupportive spouse or an abusive spouse, if you've got an alcoholic or other addict in the family, any number of things outside of"}, {"timestamp": [329.6, 335.78], "text": " work can also be a huge contributing factor. Generally speaking, well no I"}, {"timestamp": [335.78, 339.36], "text": " won't say that because there are absolutely people who are like stay-at-"}, {"timestamp": [339.36, 342.96], "text": " home moms or stay-at-home parents who can still experience burnout even though"}, {"timestamp": [342.96, 345.72], "text": " they don't technically work a day job, right?"}, {"timestamp": [345.72, 347.88], "text": " And I'm not gonna ever say that like being a stay at home"}, {"timestamp": [347.88, 349.6], "text": " parent is not a full-time job."}, {"timestamp": [349.6, 351.2], "text": " I did that, I know that it is."}, {"timestamp": [351.2, 355.78], "text": " It's often actually harder than a nine to five."}, {"timestamp": [355.78, 358.04], "text": " And then finally, previous burnout"}, {"timestamp": [359.76, 362.4], "text": " makes you more sensitive to burnout in the future."}, {"timestamp": [362.4, 364.8], "text": " It's really unfortunate because like the first time"}, {"timestamp": [364.8, 369.04], "text": " that you burn out, it's like, oh man, it it took a couple years and then you get back on the horse"}, {"timestamp": [369.04, 374.96], "text": " and then you burn out in a couple months again. So those are the primary risk factors. Now that"}, {"timestamp": [374.96, 388.8], "text": " being said there are other risk factors that are less talked about. So any kind of neurodivergence or neuro spiciness makes you at much higher risk for burnout."}, {"timestamp": [388.8, 395.0], "text": " This was talked about in Devin Price's book, Lazy Dust Does Not Exist and Unmasking Autism."}, {"timestamp": [395.0, 397.64], "text": " Those are two different books by the way, sorry."}, {"timestamp": [397.64, 402.64], "text": " So if you're HSP, which is highly sensitive person, if you're autistic, if you're ADHD,"}, {"timestamp": [402.64, 405.88], "text": " if you're anything that makes you different,"}, {"timestamp": [408.52, 412.14], "text": " this means that your reaction to stress is going to be more pronounced than other people,"}, {"timestamp": [412.14, 415.0], "text": " and also the world is just not built for you."}, {"timestamp": [415.0, 418.2], "text": " Furthermore, you're more likely to experience"}, {"timestamp": [418.2, 421.12], "text": " invalidation and bullying, and so in my case,"}, {"timestamp": [421.12, 423.48], "text": " I'm what's called twice exceptional."}, {"timestamp": [423.48, 427.52], "text": " My flavor of neuro-spiciness is more on the HSP end of autism."}, {"timestamp": [427.52, 431.16], "text": " And I'm not saying that that HSP is always autism,"}, {"timestamp": [431.16, 433.76], "text": " but there is a pretty big correlation."}, {"timestamp": [433.76, 438.12], "text": " And so HSP is about being emotionally sensitive"}, {"timestamp": [438.12, 442.2], "text": " and having sensory processing issues such as right here."}, {"timestamp": [442.2, 446.12], "text": " And so one, because I am gifted,"}, {"timestamp": [446.12, 449.48], "text": " my brain works faster and differently than most people,"}, {"timestamp": [449.48, 451.68], "text": " people perceive that as a norm violation."}, {"timestamp": [451.68, 453.28], "text": " And so a norm violation is anything"}, {"timestamp": [453.28, 454.88], "text": " that makes you seem different."}, {"timestamp": [454.88, 458.4], "text": " Then you combine that with HSP and as a strong man"}, {"timestamp": [458.4, 461.2], "text": " with tattoos, I'm not supposed to be emotional."}, {"timestamp": [461.2, 463.12], "text": " So you combine those norm violations"}, {"timestamp": [463.12, 467.44], "text": " and people just feel like it's okay to bully me. It's like, Dave shut the fuck up. You know and it's like"}, {"timestamp": [467.44, 473.6], "text": " I've literally been told that by people. Sometimes they said it nicer ways"}, {"timestamp": [473.6, 478.84], "text": " but anyways point being is that anything that sets you apart makes you at higher"}, {"timestamp": [478.84, 483.08], "text": " risk of burnout and bullying and all the things that contribute to that. Trauma as"}, {"timestamp": [483.08, 488.06], "text": " I mentioned in the previous slide, childhood trauma is a very large factor,"}, {"timestamp": [488.06, 489.56], "text": " but it doesn't have to be childhood trauma,"}, {"timestamp": [489.56, 490.72], "text": " it can be adult trauma,"}, {"timestamp": [491.6, 494.12], "text": " such as experiencing domestic violence"}, {"timestamp": [494.12, 497.98], "text": " or even any violence, really."}, {"timestamp": [497.98, 500.8], "text": " Any kind of trauma can make you more susceptible"}, {"timestamp": [500.8, 504.04], "text": " to being in a prolonged state of activation"}, {"timestamp": [504.04, 505.04], "text": " of fight or flight-flight that is"}, {"timestamp": [505.04, 510.84], "text": " called hyper arousal or hyper vigilance. So any kind of trauma can make you more"}, {"timestamp": [510.84, 515.84], "text": " at risk for burnout because some people can just tolerate a baseload of stress"}, {"timestamp": [515.84, 520.0], "text": " seemingly indefinitely, but if you've got trauma that is less likely to be true."}, {"timestamp": [520.0, 527.26], "text": " And then finally, as I mentioned with neurodivergence, anything that makes you more susceptible"}, {"timestamp": [527.26, 529.44], "text": " to discrimination or marginalization,"}, {"timestamp": [529.44, 532.88], "text": " such as the color of your skin, your accent, your voice,"}, {"timestamp": [532.88, 537.12], "text": " even if you're short or tall, if you're queer or whatever,"}, {"timestamp": [537.12, 542.12], "text": " if you have any kind of disabilities visible or otherwise,"}, {"timestamp": [542.32, 546.28], "text": " you are more likely to have your needs just steamrolled in"}, {"timestamp": [546.28, 551.42], "text": " the workplace. So these are all factors that can contribute to burnout. Okay, now"}, {"timestamp": [551.42, 556.68], "text": " what does burnout feel like? As I mentioned, basically these sound very"}, {"timestamp": [556.68, 560.56], "text": " clinical, but turn it up to 11 and that's what burnout feels like. So first is"}, {"timestamp": [560.56, 566.16], "text": " emotional exhaustion, and that is a very very euphemistic way of saying,"}, {"timestamp": [566.16, 567.96], "text": " you don't give a shit anymore."}, {"timestamp": [567.96, 572.96], "text": " It is total apathy and total inability to care."}, {"timestamp": [573.0, 575.64], "text": " Reduce performance and productivity."}, {"timestamp": [575.64, 578.06], "text": " This is something that some of us can just push through."}, {"timestamp": [578.06, 580.04], "text": " So looking back a couple of slides"}, {"timestamp": [580.04, 582.72], "text": " at the type A personality and the workaholic,"}, {"timestamp": [582.72, 586.76], "text": " those of us with like ADHD"}, {"timestamp": [586.76, 589.18], "text": " or the ability to hyperfocus and remain productive"}, {"timestamp": [589.18, 592.68], "text": " even when we're on the verge of collapse and dying."}, {"timestamp": [592.68, 594.86], "text": " Some people can work through"}, {"timestamp": [594.86, 597.1], "text": " very profound levels of illness."}, {"timestamp": [597.1, 600.54], "text": " So your work performance and productivity"}, {"timestamp": [600.54, 602.44], "text": " may or may not change."}, {"timestamp": [602.44, 606.0], "text": " And in fact, for those of us who can continue producing,"}, {"timestamp": [606.0, 609.0], "text": " even when we're sick, that can actually be a bad thing,"}, {"timestamp": [609.0, 612.0], "text": " because then we'll work even further"}, {"timestamp": [612.0, 614.0], "text": " and make ourselves even more sick."}, {"timestamp": [614.0, 616.0], "text": " Detachment and cynicism."}, {"timestamp": [616.0, 620.0], "text": " So this goes back to that emotional exhaustion and apathy."}, {"timestamp": [620.0, 623.0], "text": " And specifically having a negative or cynical attitude"}, {"timestamp": [623.0, 626.46], "text": " is just like, this sucks, I hate everything."}, {"timestamp": [627.76, 629.74], "text": " That was something that echoed through my mind"}, {"timestamp": [629.74, 631.62], "text": " very often as I was leading up to burnout"}, {"timestamp": [631.62, 633.22], "text": " is like, I hate everyone."}, {"timestamp": [633.22, 635.8], "text": " I hate everything that I'm doing, I hate everyone."}, {"timestamp": [635.8, 638.44], "text": " I want to never see these people again."}, {"timestamp": [638.44, 639.7], "text": " Physical symptoms."}, {"timestamp": [639.7, 644.7], "text": " So the physical symptoms can be all across the board."}, {"timestamp": [645.0, 646.52], "text": " I watch videos of people talking about Physical symptoms can be all across the board."}, {"timestamp": [648.7, 651.0], "text": " I watch videos of people talking about how they would have like tingling"}, {"timestamp": [651.0, 654.32], "text": " and burning sensations throughout their whole body."}, {"timestamp": [654.32, 657.04], "text": " Muscle pain, muscle spasms, stomach aches."}, {"timestamp": [657.04, 662.04], "text": " I have had digestive issues for a few years now,"}, {"timestamp": [662.04, 663.4], "text": " largely due to the pandemic."}, {"timestamp": [663.4, 665.76], "text": " So that was the initial stressor right outside of work."}, {"timestamp": [666.96, 670.32], "text": " And then you get muscle tension, which can cause headaches, migraines,"}, {"timestamp": [670.32, 675.84], "text": " all kinds of stuff. So usually pain in some kind of form,"}, {"timestamp": [676.48, 679.6], "text": " whether it's systemic, internal, whatever,"}, {"timestamp": [679.96, 682.92], "text": " usually pain of some kind is going to be part of it."}, {"timestamp": [683.2, 686.36], "text": " Spasms, twitching, that sort of thing. Um,"}, {"timestamp": [686.4, 690.52], "text": " decreased personal satisfaction. So this is like, again,"}, {"timestamp": [690.52, 692.68], "text": " a super clinical way of saying that, like,"}, {"timestamp": [692.92, 697.28], "text": " you just kind of don't care anymore. You're checked out. Right."}, {"timestamp": [697.6, 700.48], "text": " And this was valorized, um,"}, {"timestamp": [700.56, 704.96], "text": " with the pandemic and the rise of remote work with quiet quitting. Right."}, {"timestamp": [705.22, 709.14], "text": " So if you are, if, if quiet quitting sounds appealing to you,"}, {"timestamp": [709.14, 711.44], "text": " you're probably disconnected or disengaged"}, {"timestamp": [711.44, 713.36], "text": " or unengaged at work."}, {"timestamp": [713.36, 715.36], "text": " Increased anxiety."}, {"timestamp": [715.36, 718.28], "text": " So anxiety is a natural response"}, {"timestamp": [718.28, 720.7], "text": " to being chronically upregulated,"}, {"timestamp": [720.7, 723.0], "text": " which is something that I was experiencing."}, {"timestamp": [723.0, 727.2], "text": " And it was also, anxiety is often an early warning sign."}, {"timestamp": [728.28, 729.52], "text": " It's one of the,"}, {"timestamp": [729.52, 732.12], "text": " often one of the first things that people recognize"}, {"timestamp": [732.12, 733.5], "text": " is like, oh, I'm just feeling anxious,"}, {"timestamp": [733.5, 735.64], "text": " but they still have their energy and focus."}, {"timestamp": [735.64, 737.44], "text": " And finally, insomnia."}, {"timestamp": [737.44, 739.88], "text": " Insomnia was one that I totally missed."}, {"timestamp": [739.88, 742.58], "text": " I thought I had insomnia just because I was excited"}, {"timestamp": [742.58, 744.28], "text": " and I was working really hard."}, {"timestamp": [744.28, 748.72], "text": " But it turns out when you dedicate your brain to overriding your physical"}, {"timestamp": [748.72, 753.08], "text": " needs for weeks or months or years on end you get in the habit of working even"}, {"timestamp": [753.08, 756.48], "text": " when you're exhausted and so your brain is like okay I guess this is what we"}, {"timestamp": [756.48, 762.16], "text": " have to do now so we don't need sleep as much. So insomnia was a huge red flag"}, {"timestamp": [762.16, 766.48], "text": " for me that I missed. So here are some other signs that you might miss."}, {"timestamp": [766.48, 774.56], "text": " So in my research, one thing that came up every now and then was new changes, right?"}, {"timestamp": [774.56, 778.8], "text": " So you might lose your patience with people and become more irritable"}, {"timestamp": [778.8, 782.72], "text": " with colleagues or loved ones, and it can result in conflicts."}, {"timestamp": [782.72, 786.72], "text": " So if you find yourself like experiencing"}, {"timestamp": [786.72, 791.52], "text": " new kinds of conflicts or fights either at home or at work, shouting matches, that"}, {"timestamp": [791.52, 796.5], "text": " kind of thing, that can also be a neurodiversity thing because burnout for"}, {"timestamp": [796.5, 801.52], "text": " autistic people, autistic burnout usually, not usually, can include things like"}, {"timestamp": [801.52, 806.0], "text": " having a verbal meltdown and just like laying into someone or imploding."}, {"timestamp": [806.0, 807.84], "text": " So there's exploding and imploding."}, {"timestamp": [807.84, 811.16], "text": " But even if you're not autistic or otherwise neurodiverse,"}, {"timestamp": [811.16, 814.44], "text": " you might still end up with more friction with people"}, {"timestamp": [814.44, 816.74], "text": " that you normally wouldn't have friction with."}, {"timestamp": [817.92, 820.68], "text": " Again, I mentioned physical symptoms."}, {"timestamp": [820.68, 823.76], "text": " So the muscle tension and spasms."}, {"timestamp": [823.76, 825.72], "text": " So like if you just like sit down"}, {"timestamp": [825.72, 827.4], "text": " and you're like kind of twitching,"}, {"timestamp": [827.4, 830.12], "text": " that means that your body is like crackling with energy"}, {"timestamp": [830.12, 832.52], "text": " and it's ready to explode."}, {"timestamp": [832.52, 834.36], "text": " And you might have suppressed that,"}, {"timestamp": [834.36, 836.4], "text": " but you need to discharge that energy."}, {"timestamp": [836.4, 838.18], "text": " And we'll talk about that in a minute."}, {"timestamp": [838.18, 842.0], "text": " But the preview is mindfulness, yoga, exercise,"}, {"timestamp": [842.0, 847.2], "text": " and time in nature to discharge that energy. Numbness. So I talked"}, {"timestamp": [847.2, 852.4], "text": " about apathy and then there is feeling of disengagement, but numbness, if you don't know"}, {"timestamp": [852.4, 858.8], "text": " how you feel, that is because you have habitually suppressed how you feel because it is like an alarm"}, {"timestamp": [858.8, 872.6], "text": " going off and you're like, just turn the alarm off because I got to keep going. So general numbness, whether it's physical, emotional, or otherwise, is another warning sign, a red flag that it's like, oh, well, you're just"}, {"timestamp": [872.6, 877.68], "text": " ignoring your hunger and your irritation and your fatigue. So your brain eventually just"}, {"timestamp": [877.68, 884.48], "text": " kind of turns the signal off. New or magnified addictive behaviors such as alcoholism, gaming,"}, {"timestamp": [884.48, 886.0], "text": " porn addiction, that sort of stuff."}, {"timestamp": [886.0, 895.0], "text": " These are what are called self-soothing behaviors, where you're trying to escape and get some dopamine hits in any way that you can."}, {"timestamp": [895.0, 897.0], "text": " I should have added social media."}, {"timestamp": [897.0, 902.0], "text": " Doom scrolling is another quintessential warning sign, especially if it's a new behavior."}, {"timestamp": [902.0, 906.04], "text": " Another thing is new or unusual feelings"}, {"timestamp": [906.04, 911.0], "text": " of laziness or inadequacy. So a lot of people that burn out are really hard"}, {"timestamp": [911.0, 915.76], "text": " workers. One of the careers that is most susceptible to burnout"}, {"timestamp": [915.76, 922.84], "text": " are health care workers and other caregiving roles. And so these are"}, {"timestamp": [922.84, 925.72], "text": " people that work really hard and then they're used to"}, {"timestamp": [925.72, 929.16], "text": " working really hard and they're like, oh well I need to work 12-hour days so on"}, {"timestamp": [929.16, 935.28], "text": " and so forth. In my case I used to do a lot more around the house. In my backyard"}, {"timestamp": [935.28, 940.12], "text": " I built a fence, I redid the siding on my shop, I used to have so much more energy"}, {"timestamp": [940.12, 945.6], "text": " than I have now and I couldn't do those things right now. I might never get those back."}, {"timestamp": [953.92, 954.48], "text": " But if you feel lazy, that is, laziness is a form of shame or guilt when you believe,"}, {"timestamp": [958.08, 963.04], "text": " either at an unconscious or conscious or emotional level, you believe, I should be doing more. I should, I should, I should. And so if you feel lazy or you feel"}, {"timestamp": [963.04, 967.12], "text": " inadequate, that is your brain's, you know, warning sign,"}, {"timestamp": [967.12, 971.28], "text": " hey, you're slacking off, you should keep going. And if you're"}, {"timestamp": [971.28, 974.24], "text": " starting to feel that, that means that there's you're"}, {"timestamp": [974.24, 977.0], "text": " drifting from what you believe you should be doing, which is"}, {"timestamp": [977.0, 979.36], "text": " not necessarily what you actually should be doing. But"}, {"timestamp": [979.36, 982.64], "text": " what you think you should be doing is drifting from what you"}, {"timestamp": [982.64, 989.28], "text": " actually are doing. And what's happening is your body and mind are unconsciously starting to tap"}, {"timestamp": [989.28, 993.12], "text": " the brakes, right? So pay attention to that, that breaking, right?"}, {"timestamp": [994.24, 995.12], "text": " And then finally,"}, {"timestamp": [995.12, 998.64], "text": " self abusive behaviors that are related towards apathy towards yourself."}, {"timestamp": [999.32, 1001.76], "text": " I don't give a shit anymore. I'm just going to eat this pizza."}, {"timestamp": [1002.12, 1004.4], "text": " I don't give a shit anymore. I'm going to drink another beer."}, {"timestamp": [1004.6, 1009.6], "text": " That kind of thing can result in, you know what, I kind of hate everything anyways, so"}, {"timestamp": [1009.6, 1010.6], "text": " who cares?"}, {"timestamp": [1010.6, 1016.58], "text": " I remember I met someone once and we went out to get pizza and he was a bigger guy and"}, {"timestamp": [1016.58, 1020.0], "text": " he just literally said, I want the most unhealthy pizza I can eat."}, {"timestamp": [1020.0, 1027.5], "text": " And I'm like, okay, that's weird. But that is that like, you know, eating can be a form of self abuse"}, {"timestamp": [1027.5, 1030.2], "text": " or cutting or whatever."}, {"timestamp": [1030.2, 1032.16], "text": " There's all kinds of stuff."}, {"timestamp": [1032.16, 1034.36], "text": " And so I need to say that because we're,"}, {"timestamp": [1034.36, 1036.66], "text": " because I'm mentioning medical conditions,"}, {"timestamp": [1036.66, 1037.94], "text": " this is not medical advice."}, {"timestamp": [1037.94, 1040.2], "text": " This is just the research that I have done"}, {"timestamp": [1040.2, 1041.74], "text": " that I am sharing with you."}, {"timestamp": [1043.02, 1046.16], "text": " All right, the physiology of burnout. So I mentioned earlier"}, {"timestamp": [1046.16, 1053.52], "text": " that burnout is recognized in the ICD-10 and ICD-11. It is a medical condition. It is a medically"}, {"timestamp": [1053.52, 1067.92], "text": " recognized condition. It's not just a, oh, it's all in your head. It's not just, you know, I'm sad or whatever, it is a full-on full body medical condition. It is mind, body,"}, {"timestamp": [1067.92, 1073.44], "text": " gut, everything. So elevated cortisol levels. Cortisol is the stress hormone"}, {"timestamp": [1073.44, 1081.8], "text": " and so what can happen with burnout is the prolonged stress and chronic fatigue"}, {"timestamp": [1081.8, 1087.54], "text": " will raise your cortisol levels and your body will actually tune the amount of cortisol"}, {"timestamp": [1087.54, 1090.02], "text": " it's producing so that the cortisol level"}, {"timestamp": [1090.02, 1092.46], "text": " stays higher than it should,"}, {"timestamp": [1092.46, 1094.42], "text": " which means that you're basically permanently"}, {"timestamp": [1094.42, 1095.94], "text": " in a state of stress."}, {"timestamp": [1095.94, 1099.3], "text": " And that can take weeks or months to change back."}, {"timestamp": [1099.3, 1100.9], "text": " Decreased heart rate variability."}, {"timestamp": [1100.9, 1110.16], "text": " So heart rate variability is the change in your heart rate on a beat-by-beat basis."}, {"timestamp": [1110.16, 1117.68], "text": " Normally your heart rate varies up to 200 milliseconds between heartbeats, but it is a"}, {"timestamp": [1117.68, 1122.8], "text": " very reliable indicator. The lower your heart rate variability, the higher your stress level."}, {"timestamp": [1126.48, 1130.32], "text": " your heart rate variability the higher your stress level. And actually some of the nicer Fitbits and stuff will actually measure your heart rate"}, {"timestamp": [1130.32, 1135.28], "text": " variability and it can be a reliable indicator of stress. I will say though"}, {"timestamp": [1135.28, 1140.76], "text": " that my heart rate variability was still on the upward trend when I burned out so"}, {"timestamp": [1140.76, 1145.64], "text": " it's not necessarily a guarantee because I was doing more stuff to take"}, {"timestamp": [1145.64, 1151.12], "text": " care of myself like meditation and so on but even still my heart rate variability"}, {"timestamp": [1151.12, 1157.96], "text": " was okay when I burned out. Increased inflammation. So chronic stress can also"}, {"timestamp": [1157.96, 1164.2], "text": " lead to widespread inflammation in the body which inflammation has markers in"}, {"timestamp": [1164.2, 1165.0], "text": " the blood."}, {"timestamp": [1165.2, 1168.92], "text": " An immunologist can test for inflammation markers."}, {"timestamp": [1168.92, 1171.08], "text": " And basically inflammation means that your body"}, {"timestamp": [1171.08, 1173.46], "text": " is in survival mode."}, {"timestamp": [1173.46, 1177.34], "text": " It's ready to attack any problems"}, {"timestamp": [1177.34, 1180.14], "text": " such as disease or parasites or whatever."}, {"timestamp": [1181.52, 1190.0], "text": " And so chronic inflammation is also directly related to increased cortisol levels, as is reduced immune function."}, {"timestamp": [1190.0, 1206.64], "text": " So these are all correlated because if you are in survival mode, your body is going to sacrifice long-term self-care in order to protect itself over the short term, which means keep the immune system tuned, keep the inflammation"}, {"timestamp": [1206.64, 1213.28], "text": " going, but the thing is, is because your body is not taking care of itself, you're actually going"}, {"timestamp": [1213.28, 1218.16], "text": " to be more susceptible to illness. I probably didn't say that quite right, but I think you take"}, {"timestamp": [1218.16, 1223.84], "text": " my meaning. Cortisol, inflammation, and immune system are all interrelated, and you'll end up"}, {"timestamp": [1223.84, 1226.8], "text": " with disorders of those. Sleep patterns,"}, {"timestamp": [1226.8, 1230.64], "text": " I already mentioned that so I don't need to mention again, and then decreased dopamine"}, {"timestamp": [1231.36, 1235.92], "text": " in certain parts of the brain. We'll get into that more in just a moment when we talk about"}, {"timestamp": [1235.92, 1246.88], "text": " the neurology of burnout. So aside from just the physiological and subjective experience of burnout, there are changes in the"}, {"timestamp": [1246.88, 1253.52], "text": " brain that are associated with burnout. So most notably the prefrontal cortex, the PFC,"}, {"timestamp": [1253.52, 1260.0], "text": " the part of the brain right behind your forehead, right above your eyes, this is the most modern,"}, {"timestamp": [1260.0, 1265.28], "text": " most sophisticated part of your brain that is associated with things like self-control,"}, {"timestamp": [1265.28, 1273.28], "text": " executive function, and empathy, and so on, you will end up with deterioration of the prefrontal"}, {"timestamp": [1273.28, 1279.92], "text": " cortex is associated with burnout. Now, one thing to keep in mind is that a combination of yoga and"}, {"timestamp": [1279.92, 1285.48], "text": " mindfulness meditation can actually thicken the PFC and increase its functional connectivity"}, {"timestamp": [1285.48, 1286.32], "text": " to the rest of the brain."}, {"timestamp": [1286.32, 1289.92], "text": " So mindfulness and yoga and exercise in general"}, {"timestamp": [1289.92, 1293.6], "text": " are one of the key ingredients to treating"}, {"timestamp": [1293.6, 1295.72], "text": " and recovering from burnout in my experience."}, {"timestamp": [1295.72, 1298.62], "text": " Again, I cannot give this as medical advice."}, {"timestamp": [1298.62, 1301.42], "text": " I'm saying what has worked for me."}, {"timestamp": [1301.42, 1302.4], "text": " Gray matter changes."}, {"timestamp": [1302.4, 1304.0], "text": " So gray matter is the part of the brain"}, {"timestamp": [1304.0, 1305.0], "text": " that does the processing. White matter is the part of the brain that does the processing."}, {"timestamp": [1305.0, 1307.44], "text": " White matter is the wiring of the brain."}, {"timestamp": [1307.44, 1312.44], "text": " So gray matter has been noted to decrease in volume"}, {"timestamp": [1312.7, 1316.86], "text": " in certain regions of the brain as associated with burnout."}, {"timestamp": [1316.86, 1318.88], "text": " Similarly, hippocampal changes,"}, {"timestamp": [1320.16, 1323.56], "text": " which has to do with regulation, self-regulation,"}, {"timestamp": [1323.56, 1325.68], "text": " that sort of thing, ditto for that. And then"}, {"timestamp": [1325.68, 1331.44], "text": " finally neurotransmitter changes, not just dopamine but serotonin, norepinephrine, which is"}, {"timestamp": [1331.44, 1338.72], "text": " adrenaline, and so on. Disorders of those neurotransmitters and other associated hormones"}, {"timestamp": [1338.72, 1346.08], "text": " and regulating hormones are all associated with burnout. So when I say that burnout is a systemic disorder,"}, {"timestamp": [1346.08, 1349.12], "text": " it is not just like, oh, I'm tired from work."}, {"timestamp": [1349.12, 1351.12], "text": " It is a full body disorder."}, {"timestamp": [1351.12, 1353.96], "text": " It is a full body response to chronic stress"}, {"timestamp": [1353.96, 1356.0], "text": " and chronic overwork."}, {"timestamp": [1356.0, 1360.44], "text": " Okay, so that all sounds like a nightmare, and it is."}, {"timestamp": [1360.44, 1363.0], "text": " Now, so how do you recover from burnout?"}, {"timestamp": [1363.0, 1366.88], "text": " This takes, this is one of the things that I'll say is,"}, {"timestamp": [1366.88, 1370.26], "text": " all of this is easier said than done, unfortunately."}, {"timestamp": [1371.34, 1374.6], "text": " But that being said, there is a huge laundry list"}, {"timestamp": [1374.6, 1377.44], "text": " of things that you can do to recover from burnout."}, {"timestamp": [1377.44, 1380.72], "text": " And beyond this list, I have some very specific ideas,"}, {"timestamp": [1380.72, 1384.3], "text": " and we'll talk about recovery, treatment,"}, {"timestamp": [1384.3, 1387.32], "text": " and then prevention in the future."}, {"timestamp": [1387.32, 1389.6], "text": " So first is seek support."}, {"timestamp": [1390.92, 1394.12], "text": " I am very fortunate in that I have a really good friend"}, {"timestamp": [1394.12, 1397.0], "text": " of mine that I've known for a really long time."}, {"timestamp": [1397.0, 1399.72], "text": " She found out that she was on the spectrum"}, {"timestamp": [1399.72, 1401.12], "text": " a couple of years before I did."}, {"timestamp": [1401.12, 1403.72], "text": " And she was, I've mentioned her in my autism video."}, {"timestamp": [1403.72, 1404.8], "text": " She's the one that I texted."}, {"timestamp": [1404.8, 1406.6], "text": " I was like, do you think I'm autistic and she's like you"}, {"timestamp": [1406.6, 1412.88], "text": " could be and so she's like my go-to friend to talk about this stuff because"}, {"timestamp": [1412.88, 1418.12], "text": " we're the weird ones in our friend group right and so when I realized that"}, {"timestamp": [1418.12, 1422.6], "text": " burnout was happening I texted her I was like hey what's going on here and she's"}, {"timestamp": [1422.6, 1425.1], "text": " like yeah what changes have you made?"}, {"timestamp": [1425.1, 1427.12], "text": " And I was like, well, I started blocking people on LinkedIn."}, {"timestamp": [1427.12, 1428.4], "text": " She's like, good for you."}, {"timestamp": [1429.36, 1431.26], "text": " So the short version is,"}, {"timestamp": [1431.26, 1433.52], "text": " if you have someone who is familiar with it,"}, {"timestamp": [1433.52, 1434.76], "text": " that really helps."}, {"timestamp": [1434.76, 1436.92], "text": " My fiance is also familiar with burnout."}, {"timestamp": [1436.92, 1438.84], "text": " She burned out from school, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1438.84, 1442.28], "text": " From college, grad school, that is also a very common thing."}, {"timestamp": [1442.28, 1446.0], "text": " And so just as I was coming to terms with the burnout, it's like, Oh,"}, {"timestamp": [1446.0, 1450.04], "text": " like this happens, she's been, uh, my fiance and my friend have both been"}, {"timestamp": [1450.3, 1452.4], "text": " very, very helpful and very patient with me."}, {"timestamp": [1452.4, 1457.58], "text": " So finding support, finding people that you like, admire, and trust who can"}, {"timestamp": [1457.58, 1461.54], "text": " reassure you and just say like, yes, um, this is what it's like."}, {"timestamp": [1462.5, 1464.18], "text": " Uh, that is very critical."}, {"timestamp": [1464.66, 1465.04], "text": " Um, reducing stress. So again, it sounds very clinical taking steps to reduce stress. This is what it's like. That is very critical."}, {"timestamp": [1465.04, 1466.16], "text": " Reducing stress."}, {"timestamp": [1466.16, 1468.38], "text": " So again, it sounds very clinical."}, {"timestamp": [1468.38, 1470.28], "text": " Taking steps to reduce stress."}, {"timestamp": [1470.28, 1472.82], "text": " Like this means making some really big life changes"}, {"timestamp": [1472.82, 1474.46], "text": " sometimes, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1474.46, 1476.76], "text": " In some cases, if you have mild burnout,"}, {"timestamp": [1476.76, 1478.6], "text": " it could be a matter of like,"}, {"timestamp": [1478.6, 1483.52], "text": " oh, well, I need to turn my laptop off by 7 p.m."}, {"timestamp": [1483.52, 1485.46], "text": " For other people, it means throwing your laptop"}, {"timestamp": [1485.46, 1489.02], "text": " in the garbage bin, which is what I did."}, {"timestamp": [1489.02, 1490.5], "text": " I didn't physically throw my laptop,"}, {"timestamp": [1490.5, 1493.2], "text": " I just gave it back to my workplace when I quit."}, {"timestamp": [1493.2, 1495.96], "text": " But quitting jobs, changing jobs,"}, {"timestamp": [1497.5, 1499.96], "text": " or other structural changes to your life,"}, {"timestamp": [1499.96, 1502.24], "text": " whatever it takes to reduce stress,"}, {"timestamp": [1502.24, 1504.4], "text": " that's a thing that you might need to do."}, {"timestamp": [1504.4, 1507.68], "text": " I started new behaviors, or I restarted behaviors,"}, {"timestamp": [1507.68, 1510.08], "text": " yoga and meditation, going to the gym more,"}, {"timestamp": [1510.08, 1511.92], "text": " going outside more."}, {"timestamp": [1511.92, 1513.14], "text": " Boundaries."}, {"timestamp": [1513.14, 1515.2], "text": " Setting boundaries can be really difficult."}, {"timestamp": [1515.2, 1517.48], "text": " I've talked about those in previous videos."}, {"timestamp": [1517.48, 1521.88], "text": " And so basically, boundaries are you tell someone no."}, {"timestamp": [1521.88, 1527.62], "text": " You tell work no, you tell family no, you tell your children no. Whoever it is, you tell someone no. You tell work no, you tell family no, you tell your children"}, {"timestamp": [1527.62, 1531.66], "text": " no. Whoever it is you tell someone no, I'm not going to do that, you know, let's"}, {"timestamp": [1531.66, 1535.42], "text": " let's create some distance between what you want and what I want, what you need"}, {"timestamp": [1535.42, 1539.7], "text": " and what I need. One big problem, especially with some of us, is that"}, {"timestamp": [1539.7, 1544.62], "text": " people don't respect boundaries. And in those cases, my recommendation is banish"}, {"timestamp": [1544.62, 1545.24], "text": " those people from your life, if at all those cases, my recommendation is banish those people from"}, {"timestamp": [1545.24, 1549.6], "text": " your life, if at all possible. Obviously, you can't banish everyone from your life,"}, {"timestamp": [1549.6, 1554.24], "text": " you can't banish your children from your life. So in those cases, you do have to work harder"}, {"timestamp": [1554.24, 1559.2], "text": " to establish and enforce boundaries. But one of the key lessons is we teach people how"}, {"timestamp": [1559.2, 1563.78], "text": " to treat us. And so if someone doesn't respect your boundaries, like you really got to dig"}, {"timestamp": [1563.78, 1565.34], "text": " in your heels sometimes."}, {"timestamp": [1565.34, 1568.02], "text": " And as I mentioned earlier in the video,"}, {"timestamp": [1568.02, 1570.4], "text": " I've had workplaces where boundaries"}, {"timestamp": [1570.4, 1573.48], "text": " were not even remotely acknowledged."}, {"timestamp": [1574.48, 1578.48], "text": " It's more typical in older men to not respect boundaries,"}, {"timestamp": [1579.4, 1581.76], "text": " to think that, oh, boundaries are just a suggestion."}, {"timestamp": [1581.76, 1583.12], "text": " Boundaries are for wimps."}, {"timestamp": [1583.12, 1584.48], "text": " I'm in control here."}, {"timestamp": [1584.48, 1587.68], "text": " I'm gonna tell you what to do. I'm gonna crack the whip. I actually blew up"}, {"timestamp": [1587.68, 1590.56], "text": " at someone who used that term. I'm gonna crack the whip. I said no the hell"}, {"timestamp": [1590.56, 1596.84], "text": " you're not. You can see that didn't go well. That person is no longer in my life."}, {"timestamp": [1596.84, 1602.68], "text": " Thank God. So anyways, changing work environment. Like I said, quit if you need"}, {"timestamp": [1602.68, 1605.72], "text": " to. I will also add the caveat, I'm, quit if you need to."}, {"timestamp": [1605.72, 1608.96], "text": " I will also add the caveat, I'm not telling you what to do."}, {"timestamp": [1608.96, 1611.48], "text": " I quit and it worked for me."}, {"timestamp": [1611.48, 1616.26], "text": " That being said, I have talked with friends and my fiance and other people."}, {"timestamp": [1616.26, 1621.24], "text": " More often than not, if you work in a healthy work environment, just telling people that"}, {"timestamp": [1621.24, 1624.76], "text": " you've got too much going on, they should respect that."}, {"timestamp": [1624.76, 1629.96], "text": " Not always, but they should and so if you say hey, like, you know, I need I need some additional boundaries"}, {"timestamp": [1629.96, 1634.6], "text": " I remember before I quit my day job. I talked to the director of our group and I was like man"}, {"timestamp": [1634.6, 1636.54], "text": " I just I can't keep up with everything. He's like"}, {"timestamp": [1636.54, 1637.0], "text": " Oh"}, {"timestamp": [1637.0, 1639.2], "text": " Like just ignore half your email, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1639.2, 1646.52], "text": " If you don't respond and someone doesn't say anything like it or if you don't respond within three days and they don't say anything they probably didn't need your"}, {"timestamp": [1646.52, 1650.86], "text": " help anyways I'm like really that's it you can do that and it's like okay and I"}, {"timestamp": [1650.86, 1654.72], "text": " tried it and it works so there are things you can do to change your work"}, {"timestamp": [1654.72, 1658.76], "text": " environment don't make any assumptions that you must do everything this is a"}, {"timestamp": [1658.76, 1663.12], "text": " weird thing that I think neurotypicals just intrinsically understand and I"}, {"timestamp": [1663.12, 1665.16], "text": " don't know where they learned this,"}, {"timestamp": [1665.16, 1668.64], "text": " but most people who succeed in the workplace"}, {"timestamp": [1668.64, 1670.56], "text": " ignore most of what comes their way."}, {"timestamp": [1670.56, 1672.24], "text": " I don't know how that's possible"}, {"timestamp": [1672.24, 1675.72], "text": " or why that's a default, but it is."}, {"timestamp": [1675.72, 1680.72], "text": " And so ignore emails, ignore calls, ignore messages."}, {"timestamp": [1681.24, 1682.48], "text": " The more you ignore people,"}, {"timestamp": [1682.48, 1685.2], "text": " the more they realize you're not available."}, {"timestamp": [1685.2, 1689.52], "text": " So by the time I quit my day job, I had actually gotten really good at ignoring stuff and paying"}, {"timestamp": [1689.52, 1695.16], "text": " attention to only that which I knew was directly relevant to my responsibilities."}, {"timestamp": [1695.16, 1696.76], "text": " And that actually really helped a lot."}, {"timestamp": [1696.76, 1699.66], "text": " Now that didn't prevent the bullying from happening."}, {"timestamp": [1699.66, 1703.2], "text": " And when my workplace decided not to do anything about the bullying, I said, okay, time for"}, {"timestamp": [1703.2, 1708.36], "text": " me to go. Finally practice or, or not finally, second to last, practice"}, {"timestamp": [1708.36, 1713.74], "text": " mindfulness. So mindful meditation, yoga, deep breathing, all of that stuff, life"}, {"timestamp": [1713.74, 1718.84], "text": " changing, game changing for me. Mindfulness was the first thing that"}, {"timestamp": [1718.84, 1724.8], "text": " helped me, one, reconnect with my body, as well as the yoga, but also to fix my"}, {"timestamp": [1724.8, 1725.72], "text": " sleep. Because when you're exhausted, all you want as the yoga, but also to fix my sleep because"}, {"timestamp": [1725.72, 1729.04], "text": " when you're exhausted all you want is more sleep but then your brain wakes you"}, {"timestamp": [1729.04, 1733.08], "text": " up. So mindfulness, mindfulness, mindfulness. This was the biggest thing"}, {"timestamp": [1733.08, 1739.0], "text": " for me. Excuse me. And then finally seek professional help. Whether it's a"}, {"timestamp": [1739.0, 1744.24], "text": " therapist, a counselor. I actually have found that groups like you know formal"}, {"timestamp": [1744.24, 1746.68], "text": " groups are actually really helpful,"}, {"timestamp": [1746.68, 1750.82], "text": " whether it's grief or stress or various 12-step programs."}, {"timestamp": [1751.8, 1753.32], "text": " So that is like, I would say that's like"}, {"timestamp": [1753.32, 1756.12], "text": " semi-professional help because it is highly organized"}, {"timestamp": [1756.12, 1757.38], "text": " and highly structured."}, {"timestamp": [1757.38, 1760.84], "text": " But for me personally, peer support is better"}, {"timestamp": [1760.84, 1763.24], "text": " than going to an individual professional."}, {"timestamp": [1763.24, 1770.52], "text": " I often have a really hard time trusting individual professionals, especially having known some of them. Put"}, {"timestamp": [1770.52, 1775.3], "text": " it this way, some professionals are not doing it for the right reasons, and I'll"}, {"timestamp": [1775.3, 1781.24], "text": " leave it at that. So group support, peer support, to me is, I consider that a kind"}, {"timestamp": [1781.24, 1785.44], "text": " of professional help, and for me it has been incredibly helpful."}, {"timestamp": [1789.76, 1797.04], "text": " All right, so some more specific ideas to really get down to the nitty-gritty. One, quit or change jobs. So earlier this year I quit my day job and I'm doing YouTube and Patreon"}, {"timestamp": [1797.04, 1802.0], "text": " full-time and for me that was the right thing. Obviously that path is not going to work for"}, {"timestamp": [1802.0, 1807.12], "text": " everyone. For some people it's a matter of changing, you know, just maybe changing companies, changing"}, {"timestamp": [1807.12, 1811.6], "text": " team, maybe changing direction a little bit, but otherwise keeping things the same."}, {"timestamp": [1811.6, 1816.86], "text": " For me, it was about, I actually don't care about, you know, the stuff that I'm working"}, {"timestamp": [1816.86, 1818.2], "text": " on in my day job anymore."}, {"timestamp": [1818.2, 1822.36], "text": " I care about our artificial intelligence and life and philosophy."}, {"timestamp": [1822.36, 1826.88], "text": " So I had a drastic misalignment with my values"}, {"timestamp": [1826.88, 1829.92], "text": " and my mission in life with working the nine to five."}, {"timestamp": [1829.92, 1831.96], "text": " And of course, everyone, you might roll your eyes,"}, {"timestamp": [1831.96, 1833.34], "text": " oh, well, that's everybody."}, {"timestamp": [1833.34, 1834.88], "text": " And that's true."}, {"timestamp": [1834.88, 1838.72], "text": " For many of us throughout a good chunk of our career,"}, {"timestamp": [1838.72, 1841.16], "text": " we have a job that's just a job, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1841.16, 1843.76], "text": " Not everyone can work what they're passionate about,"}, {"timestamp": [1843.76, 1851.8], "text": " but because I was so passionate about something else, that was a really big, you know, point of"}, {"timestamp": [1851.8, 1856.24], "text": " friction. Restructuring your life strategically. And so what I mean by"}, {"timestamp": [1856.24, 1860.16], "text": " restructuring your life is write down what you do. When do you go to sleep? When"}, {"timestamp": [1860.16, 1864.74], "text": " do you wake up? When and where do you eat? Who do you spend time with? And so what"}, {"timestamp": [1864.74, 1866.48], "text": " you'll find is that there are patterns"}, {"timestamp": [1866.48, 1870.2], "text": " and habits in there, and there are forces"}, {"timestamp": [1870.2, 1873.76], "text": " or trends that kind of coerce those things."}, {"timestamp": [1873.76, 1875.4], "text": " Like say for instance, you skip breakfast"}, {"timestamp": [1875.4, 1876.98], "text": " because you're always on the go."}, {"timestamp": [1876.98, 1879.72], "text": " Well, it might require a structural change to say,"}, {"timestamp": [1879.72, 1881.86], "text": " actually I'm gonna prioritize having breakfast"}, {"timestamp": [1881.86, 1883.72], "text": " because I know that I feel better when I do."}, {"timestamp": [1883.72, 1889.12], "text": " I don't, I actually feel better when I skip breakfast because I do intermittent fasting and giving my digestion"}, {"timestamp": [1889.12, 1894.96], "text": " system a chance to rest actually really helps me feel much better. And then because then after I"}, {"timestamp": [1894.96, 1901.76], "text": " eat I have siesta time. I go into a food coma when I eat and it's great. Other structural changes"}, {"timestamp": [1901.76, 1906.68], "text": " could be, you know, if you have a job that requires you to be on call,"}, {"timestamp": [1906.68, 1909.22], "text": " get a different job that doesn't require you to be on call"}, {"timestamp": [1909.22, 1912.18], "text": " or negotiate boundaries so that you're only on call"}, {"timestamp": [1912.18, 1913.68], "text": " half the time, stuff like that."}, {"timestamp": [1913.68, 1915.84], "text": " That's what I mean by restructuring your life."}, {"timestamp": [1915.84, 1918.4], "text": " It could also mean physically moving."}, {"timestamp": [1918.4, 1919.44], "text": " If you live in the city,"}, {"timestamp": [1919.44, 1924.44], "text": " cities are proven far and wide to increase stress levels."}, {"timestamp": [1925.0, 1925.62], "text": " Move to the countryside, that's what I'm gonna do. have are proven far and wide to increase stress levels."}, {"timestamp": [1928.14, 1930.46], "text": " Move to the countryside, that's what I'm gonna do. As soon as things settle down,"}, {"timestamp": [1930.46, 1932.5], "text": " like we're gonna move to the countryside."}, {"timestamp": [1933.42, 1937.42], "text": " So other words, whatever you do, make substantive changes."}, {"timestamp": [1937.42, 1939.94], "text": " And sometimes these substantive changes"}, {"timestamp": [1939.94, 1942.86], "text": " require compromises or sacrifice."}, {"timestamp": [1942.86, 1944.62], "text": " And I don't mean sacrifice like"}, {"timestamp": [1944.62, 1946.32], "text": " don't sacrifice your free time,"}, {"timestamp": [1946.32, 1947.88], "text": " don't sacrifice your sanity."}, {"timestamp": [1947.88, 1950.64], "text": " I mean, sacrifice your ambition, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1950.64, 1952.84], "text": " Because if your ambition is gonna kill you,"}, {"timestamp": [1952.84, 1953.76], "text": " it's not worth it."}, {"timestamp": [1953.76, 1955.28], "text": " It's that simple."}, {"timestamp": [1955.28, 1957.68], "text": " Another thing is inner work."}, {"timestamp": [1957.68, 1959.36], "text": " So when I say inner work,"}, {"timestamp": [1959.36, 1961.66], "text": " I mean, this is what you might associate with"}, {"timestamp": [1961.66, 1963.72], "text": " like going to therapy or whatever."}, {"timestamp": [1963.72, 1966.96], "text": " For me, inner work means reading books, meditating,"}, {"timestamp": [1966.98, 1971.98], "text": " reflecting on my inner world and making those changes to my own beliefs,"}, {"timestamp": [1972.48, 1977.48], "text": " my own feelings and healing from cultural baggage and past traumas,"}, {"timestamp": [1978.94, 1982.8], "text": " but also focusing on aligning with my values and my real needs."}, {"timestamp": [1983.08, 1987.4], "text": " Reconnecting with your body can be a very painful experience because, as I mentioned"}, {"timestamp": [1987.4, 1992.44], "text": " earlier in this video, we habituate out of responding to our body and eventually the"}, {"timestamp": [1992.44, 1994.24], "text": " signals go away."}, {"timestamp": [1994.24, 1998.56], "text": " And then reconnecting, de-minimizing that can be very painful."}, {"timestamp": [1998.56, 2008.34], "text": " Like when you get in touch with all the tension in your shoulders, it hurts. When I first did that, I woke up every night for weeks"}, {"timestamp": [2008.34, 2010.66], "text": " with just incredible muscle pain"}, {"timestamp": [2010.66, 2012.26], "text": " that had been there all along,"}, {"timestamp": [2012.26, 2014.1], "text": " but as I started de-minimizing it,"}, {"timestamp": [2014.1, 2017.14], "text": " it was so painful I had to wake up and do yoga every night"}, {"timestamp": [2017.14, 2022.14], "text": " in order to work through that tension."}, {"timestamp": [2022.18, 2023.82], "text": " Unplugging."}, {"timestamp": [2023.82, 2026.0], "text": " Delete social media and get off your phone."}, {"timestamp": [2026.0, 2032.56], "text": " My phone is over there and it is powered off. I power on my phone at most once per day."}, {"timestamp": [2033.92, 2039.28], "text": " Usually if I am going somewhere, like driving somewhere like further than a few minutes from"}, {"timestamp": [2039.28, 2046.98], "text": " home or somewhere that I don't go often, that's one of the only times that I use my phone. Otherwise, I only turn it on while I'm at home"}, {"timestamp": [2046.98, 2050.52], "text": " if I'm expecting a call, which is never,"}, {"timestamp": [2050.52, 2051.72], "text": " because I'm a millennial,"}, {"timestamp": [2052.76, 2055.8], "text": " or if there's a specific thing that I need my phone for."}, {"timestamp": [2055.8, 2059.18], "text": " But otherwise, meet up and email and stuff,"}, {"timestamp": [2059.18, 2060.2], "text": " I get on my computer,"}, {"timestamp": [2060.2, 2062.74], "text": " and then when I'm not at my computer, I turn it off."}, {"timestamp": [2062.74, 2063.76], "text": " And it's really weird,"}, {"timestamp": [2063.76, 2066.24], "text": " because we're so used to using our computers and phones,"}, {"timestamp": [2066.24, 2068.24], "text": " it's like, well, now what do I do?"}, {"timestamp": [2068.24, 2072.76], "text": " So what I do, here's specifically what I do."}, {"timestamp": [2072.76, 2074.68], "text": " I don't have my notepad here, but here."}, {"timestamp": [2074.68, 2076.96], "text": " Here's a piece of paper to represent my notepad."}, {"timestamp": [2076.96, 2079.64], "text": " What I would do is I would turn off all my electronics"}, {"timestamp": [2079.64, 2081.0], "text": " and just sit there and be bored for a minute."}, {"timestamp": [2081.0, 2081.84], "text": " Like, what should I do?"}, {"timestamp": [2081.84, 2084.44], "text": " And I'm like, oh, I need to do my taxes."}, {"timestamp": [2084.44, 2087.88], "text": " So I jot down do taxes. Oh, I need to mow the yard okay let me go"}, {"timestamp": [2087.88, 2092.6], "text": " mow the yard and so by doing that by getting your brain out of electronics"}, {"timestamp": [2092.6, 2098.12], "text": " land by unplugging that can be a really great way to get away from screens and"}, {"timestamp": [2098.12, 2104.84], "text": " of course the science is unequivocal screen time is bad for you watching TV"}, {"timestamp": [2104.84, 2106.08], "text": " and playing video games is"}, {"timestamp": [2106.08, 2110.64], "text": " probably lower on the list, but certainly social media, that is really bad for you."}, {"timestamp": [2110.64, 2116.32], "text": " News, doom scrolling, horrible for you. Another thing is join social groups."}, {"timestamp": [2116.32, 2122.08], "text": " Meetup.com has been my like salvation, and I shouldn't use that"}, {"timestamp": [2122.08, 2125.4], "text": " term because there is no such thing as a salvation fantasy."}, {"timestamp": [2125.4, 2129.48], "text": " It's not like one magic bullet is going to fix everything in your life."}, {"timestamp": [2129.48, 2135.0], "text": " However, that being said, I have been very fortunate to find some really interesting"}, {"timestamp": [2135.0, 2140.52], "text": " and good and wholesome people through joining new social groups."}, {"timestamp": [2140.52, 2146.52], "text": " So whether it's through your church or through meetup.com or wherever you get your social groups from,"}, {"timestamp": [2146.52, 2147.36], "text": " it is worth it."}, {"timestamp": [2147.36, 2149.32], "text": " And one thing to keep in mind,"}, {"timestamp": [2149.32, 2151.32], "text": " because I'm such a perfectionist and workaholic,"}, {"timestamp": [2151.32, 2152.7], "text": " I'm like, oh, I need to go integrate"}, {"timestamp": [2152.7, 2154.88], "text": " with this group immediately."}, {"timestamp": [2154.88, 2156.28], "text": " And that's not how it works."}, {"timestamp": [2157.32, 2160.24], "text": " In fact, it actually takes about six months"}, {"timestamp": [2160.24, 2163.76], "text": " of regular interaction to integrate with a new social group."}, {"timestamp": [2163.76, 2166.44], "text": " So be patient with yourself. And this is advice I need to take."}, {"timestamp": [2166.44, 2170.44], "text": " Take a vacation if you can."}, {"timestamp": [2170.44, 2174.24], "text": " Every time I've gone on a vacation with my fianc\u00e9, it has been life-changing."}, {"timestamp": [2174.24, 2176.94], "text": " Even if it's just a few days away, right?"}, {"timestamp": [2176.94, 2180.94], "text": " Go to the mountains where you don't have any internet signal."}, {"timestamp": [2180.94, 2189.14], "text": " Go to the beach where there's literally nothing productive to do except lay on the beach. Those are examples of things that I have done"}, {"timestamp": [2189.14, 2193.34], "text": " that every time I came back I had my priorities straight in my head like, oh"}, {"timestamp": [2193.34, 2197.66], "text": " this thing, this battle that I'm fighting over here, totally not worth it."}, {"timestamp": [2197.66, 2202.62], "text": " I'm gonna walk away. Finally, reconnecting with friends and family, or not finally,"}, {"timestamp": [2202.62, 2206.2], "text": " reconnecting with friends and family is really important."}, {"timestamp": [2206.2, 2210.4], "text": " So one thing that I realized as I was approaching burnout is that I have friends that I've had"}, {"timestamp": [2210.4, 2214.44], "text": " for 10 plus years, 15 years, that I don't see that often."}, {"timestamp": [2214.44, 2215.58], "text": " And I don't talk to that often."}, {"timestamp": [2215.58, 2219.48], "text": " And so I just made it a point like, oh, right, they don't invite me to things anymore because"}, {"timestamp": [2219.48, 2221.28], "text": " I haven't showed up to anything for years."}, {"timestamp": [2221.28, 2223.44], "text": " So I'd message them like, hey, man, what's going on?"}, {"timestamp": [2223.44, 2225.28], "text": " Do you want to go out to the range today?"}, {"timestamp": [2227.76, 2232.32], "text": " And sure enough, my friends are like, Hey, it's good to see you. And we had a great time. Um, and then reconnecting with family,"}, {"timestamp": [2232.34, 2235.72], "text": " ditto. Um, eventually what happens if you stop responding to"}, {"timestamp": [2235.72, 2238.94], "text": " invitations, the invitation stopped coming. And actually in a"}, {"timestamp": [2238.94, 2241.48], "text": " previous video recently, I said that I was grateful for that."}, {"timestamp": [2241.8, 2244.32], "text": " And that was actually a sign of burnout. That apathy, that"}, {"timestamp": [2244.32, 2245.92], "text": " numbness, that disconnection was actually a sign of burnout. That apathy, that numbness, that disconnection"}, {"timestamp": [2245.92, 2249.0], "text": " was actually a sign, a precursor of my burnout."}, {"timestamp": [2249.92, 2252.08], "text": " Remove certain people from your life."}, {"timestamp": [2252.08, 2255.0], "text": " So some people are just addicted to drama."}, {"timestamp": [2255.0, 2259.24], "text": " Some people are addicted to crossing boundaries,"}, {"timestamp": [2259.24, 2261.4], "text": " to being manipulative, to getting control of you,"}, {"timestamp": [2261.4, 2262.3], "text": " to whatever."}, {"timestamp": [2263.2, 2265.8], "text": " If those people exist, remove them from your life"}, {"timestamp": [2265.8, 2268.34], "text": " because they are going to contribute to your burnout."}, {"timestamp": [2268.34, 2271.02], "text": " And in some cases that means like getting a divorce."}, {"timestamp": [2271.02, 2272.26], "text": " That's what I did."}, {"timestamp": [2272.26, 2275.22], "text": " You know, my ex was, would not let me rest."}, {"timestamp": [2275.22, 2278.82], "text": " She would actually start fights if she saw me resting."}, {"timestamp": [2278.82, 2280.82], "text": " And so of course, like I'm already in a state,"}, {"timestamp": [2280.82, 2282.1], "text": " I was already in a state of burnout."}, {"timestamp": [2282.1, 2283.26], "text": " This was years ago."}, {"timestamp": [2283.26, 2284.9], "text": " I was already in a state of burnout."}, {"timestamp": [2284.9, 2289.6], "text": " And then I have my spouse yelling at me"}, {"timestamp": [2289.6, 2291.96], "text": " for trying to take care of myself."}, {"timestamp": [2291.96, 2295.16], "text": " So I was burned out from work and then burned out from home."}, {"timestamp": [2295.16, 2296.92], "text": " So what happened after a while,"}, {"timestamp": [2296.92, 2298.96], "text": " I told her, I'm not gonna live like this."}, {"timestamp": [2298.96, 2300.36], "text": " I am done living like this."}, {"timestamp": [2300.36, 2302.12], "text": " And she was like, what do you mean?"}, {"timestamp": [2302.12, 2304.88], "text": " And I'm like, we're done."}, {"timestamp": [2304.88, 2307.36], "text": " And then finally, rest, rest, rest."}, {"timestamp": [2308.72, 2311.8], "text": " We'll talk a little bit more about the guilt and shame that comes with rest in"}, {"timestamp": [2311.8, 2314.96], "text": " just a moment. So I'm not gonna beat this point to death."}, {"timestamp": [2316.12, 2317.76], "text": " So how long does it take?"}, {"timestamp": [2317.92, 2322.92], "text": " This is the most disappointing and difficult aspect of learning about burnout."}, {"timestamp": [2327.0, 2331.28], "text": " You might have a good day here and there and you're like, oh I'm done, I'm better, and then you overdo it as I"}, {"timestamp": [2331.28, 2335.92], "text": " do and as many perfectionists do, and then you're tired again and you're back"}, {"timestamp": [2335.92, 2340.84], "text": " to square one. So looking back to the first time that I really burned out, it"}, {"timestamp": [2340.84, 2345.52], "text": " took about six months of doing nothing but playing video games and"}, {"timestamp": [2345.52, 2350.12], "text": " doing as little as possible every day in order to recover and then as I started"}, {"timestamp": [2350.12, 2353.64], "text": " to come back to life I started cleaning up the yard I just had more energy and I"}, {"timestamp": [2353.64, 2358.92], "text": " was inspired to get outside more. Fortunately this time I caught it"}, {"timestamp": [2358.92, 2362.52], "text": " earlier and I'm more well equipped so I'm not in as bad of shape as I was the"}, {"timestamp": [2362.52, 2366.58], "text": " first time that I burned out or the second time that I burned out but I didn't know what was"}, {"timestamp": [2366.58, 2372.0], "text": " happening back then. I didn't have a word for it. So it typically takes 6 to 18"}, {"timestamp": [2372.0, 2376.22], "text": " months to recover from burnout. This is just looking at examples across the"}, {"timestamp": [2376.22, 2382.08], "text": " internet. Six months typically that's a minimum. I did watch a couple videos with"}, {"timestamp": [2382.08, 2385.02], "text": " therapists and counselors who said that they have had clients"}, {"timestamp": [2385.02, 2386.68], "text": " that recover in a month."}, {"timestamp": [2386.68, 2389.52], "text": " And certainly there are YouTubers,"}, {"timestamp": [2389.52, 2391.04], "text": " there's a, what is it?"}, {"timestamp": [2391.04, 2393.96], "text": " Simple Zen Habits, or no, Simple Happy Zen."}, {"timestamp": [2393.96, 2397.36], "text": " She's a YouTuber, she takes a month off."}, {"timestamp": [2397.36, 2400.04], "text": " Autism from the inside, he takes a month off."}, {"timestamp": [2400.04, 2403.96], "text": " And so that can be, that's like pre-burnout, right?"}, {"timestamp": [2403.96, 2406.32], "text": " If you can sense that burnout is coming"}, {"timestamp": [2406.32, 2407.6], "text": " and you do nothing for a month,"}, {"timestamp": [2407.6, 2410.66], "text": " you do self-care and disconnect for a month,"}, {"timestamp": [2410.66, 2412.18], "text": " that seems to be good enough"}, {"timestamp": [2412.18, 2415.32], "text": " to head off burnout at the pass."}, {"timestamp": [2415.32, 2417.0], "text": " In other cases though,"}, {"timestamp": [2417.0, 2420.56], "text": " particularly for really high-performing people,"}, {"timestamp": [2420.56, 2423.2], "text": " type A personalities, workaholics,"}, {"timestamp": [2423.2, 2426.42], "text": " sometimes I've found plenty of stories of people"}, {"timestamp": [2426.42, 2429.52], "text": " that took four to six years to recover from burnout"}, {"timestamp": [2429.52, 2432.32], "text": " because they got so profoundly sick,"}, {"timestamp": [2432.32, 2435.58], "text": " because they worked through their burnout for years."}, {"timestamp": [2435.58, 2437.22], "text": " So imagine being burned out for years"}, {"timestamp": [2437.22, 2440.42], "text": " and then still continuing to raise a family,"}, {"timestamp": [2440.42, 2444.06], "text": " to be a career person, to just push and push and push."}, {"timestamp": [2444.06, 2447.48], "text": " And that's when you end up with the autoimmune disorders"}, {"timestamp": [2447.48, 2451.64], "text": " and people that end up with permanent,"}, {"timestamp": [2451.64, 2454.88], "text": " either impairments or disabilities because of that."}, {"timestamp": [2454.88, 2459.88], "text": " So one point of advice that I would give"}, {"timestamp": [2460.02, 2461.88], "text": " is if you suspect that you're burning out"}, {"timestamp": [2461.88, 2463.6], "text": " or suspect that you're burned out,"}, {"timestamp": [2463.6, 2466.76], "text": " take action sooner rather than later, which is why I'm making this video."}, {"timestamp": [2466.96, 2470.48], "text": " I wanted to just put together all the information that I had. Now,"}, {"timestamp": [2471.12, 2475.56], "text": " one thing that I have noticed is that two years seems to be a little bit more"}, {"timestamp": [2475.56, 2478.04], "text": " typical for high risk people."}, {"timestamp": [2478.32, 2482.36], "text": " So particularly people with a any kind of neuro spiciness,"}, {"timestamp": [2482.36, 2485.2], "text": " any kind of neurodiversity, two years seems"}, {"timestamp": [2485.2, 2490.12], "text": " to be a little bit more common. So now that being said, there are also examples"}, {"timestamp": [2490.12, 2494.72], "text": " of people on the spectrum that burn out and do nothing for six months, so that's"}, {"timestamp": [2494.72, 2498.12], "text": " a little bit on the shorter end, but for instance my friend that I texted, she's"}, {"timestamp": [2498.12, 2501.64], "text": " like she did nothing for two years and I'm like oh yeah I didn't really hear"}, {"timestamp": [2501.64, 2507.18], "text": " from you for a couple years. So that's what had happened was she was working a typical nine to five."}, {"timestamp": [2507.18, 2514.3], "text": " She burned out, realized that she was on the spectrum and then ended a relationship, moved,"}, {"timestamp": [2514.3, 2519.48], "text": " changed careers, like did everything that I'm recommending and everything that I'm doing."}, {"timestamp": [2519.48, 2522.68], "text": " You got to make big changes to your life, but it took her two years to recover."}, {"timestamp": [2522.68, 2531.04], "text": " And there are plenty of other YouTubers that have talked about burnout that took two years to recover. I think Simple Happy Zen took two"}, {"timestamp": [2531.04, 2537.84], "text": " years to recover as well. And as I mentioned just a moment ago, high-performing people tend to push"}, {"timestamp": [2537.84, 2546.0], "text": " through their burnout for longer, which can result in more profound illness and much longer recovery times."}, {"timestamp": [2546.0, 2550.88], "text": " So in that respect, those of us who are more sensitive and burnout sooner, that can actually"}, {"timestamp": [2550.88, 2556.24], "text": " be a saving grace. And that like, oh, well, actually, I'm really sensitive and fragile."}, {"timestamp": [2556.24, 2561.76], "text": " And so I burned out quickly. And it wasn't as bad. Another thing is that burnout can happen"}, {"timestamp": [2561.76, 2567.12], "text": " at any time. There are teenagers that burn out. There are 20-somethings that burn out."}, {"timestamp": [2567.12, 2568.2], "text": " There are people that don't burn out"}, {"timestamp": [2568.2, 2572.92], "text": " until their 30s, 40s, 50s, even 60s before they burn out."}, {"timestamp": [2572.92, 2574.18], "text": " So it varies widely."}, {"timestamp": [2574.18, 2575.98], "text": " You can burn out at any time."}, {"timestamp": [2575.98, 2579.24], "text": " And again, whether or not you're working a typical job."}, {"timestamp": [2581.44, 2586.48], "text": " One thing that I had a hard time finding information on was what is daily life"}, {"timestamp": [2586.48, 2592.72], "text": " like with burnout? And I found this this stock image of a very tired apathetic"}, {"timestamp": [2592.72, 2597.44], "text": " looking woman wearing a hoodie laying on the couch. And this is the mood of"}, {"timestamp": [2597.44, 2603.12], "text": " burnout. Your energy and mood can vary a lot from day to day. Right now I have a"}, {"timestamp": [2603.12, 2610.26], "text": " little bit more energy than I have had and I really wanted to make this video, so that's me, but I"}, {"timestamp": [2610.26, 2614.16], "text": " guarantee you after I make this video and get it published I'm gonna eat"}, {"timestamp": [2614.16, 2618.96], "text": " lunch and I will be that. I will be that that person on the couch just watching"}, {"timestamp": [2618.96, 2625.6], "text": " Netflix and YouTube probably for the rest of the day. When you are in a state of burnout,"}, {"timestamp": [2625.6, 2627.44], "text": " you have limited spoons."}, {"timestamp": [2627.44, 2630.16], "text": " And if you're not familiar with the spoon analogy,"}, {"timestamp": [2630.16, 2632.72], "text": " it is for people with disabilities."}, {"timestamp": [2632.72, 2636.24], "text": " And the idea is that if you're normal and healthy,"}, {"timestamp": [2636.24, 2639.32], "text": " you have a large reserve of spoons"}, {"timestamp": [2639.32, 2641.92], "text": " and basically you spend a spoon"}, {"timestamp": [2641.92, 2644.36], "text": " in order to do something like go to the grocery store"}, {"timestamp": [2644.36, 2647.92], "text": " or you spend a spoon in order to do something like go to the grocery store or you spend a spoon to go to work. But"}, {"timestamp": [2647.92, 2651.04], "text": " if you are in a state of burnout or otherwise"}, {"timestamp": [2651.04, 2654.48], "text": " have some kind of disability or something that makes you more sensitive"}, {"timestamp": [2654.48, 2657.52], "text": " one, you have fewer spoons than other people"}, {"timestamp": [2657.52, 2662.04], "text": " and the tasks that don't cost other people spoons"}, {"timestamp": [2662.04, 2665.24], "text": " might cost you spoons, might cost you a lot of spoons."}, {"timestamp": [2665.24, 2667.16], "text": " So anyways, the spoon analogy is,"}, {"timestamp": [2667.16, 2669.56], "text": " it's like, okay, well, before burnout,"}, {"timestamp": [2669.56, 2670.88], "text": " I could like build a fence,"}, {"timestamp": [2670.88, 2673.16], "text": " I could go to my day job and then come home,"}, {"timestamp": [2673.16, 2675.6], "text": " go to the hardware store, get a bunch of wood,"}, {"timestamp": [2675.6, 2678.52], "text": " go build a fence and be basically doing stuff"}, {"timestamp": [2678.52, 2682.68], "text": " from 7 a.m. until 8 p.m., day in and day out,"}, {"timestamp": [2682.68, 2684.06], "text": " and then sleep like a log"}, {"timestamp": [2684.06, 2685.36], "text": " and do it all again the next"}, {"timestamp": [2685.36, 2691.58], "text": " day. So I basically had unlimited spoons when I was 25. Now at 37 I have like"}, {"timestamp": [2691.58, 2696.84], "text": " three spoons. I might not ever get them back and that is a part of the"}, {"timestamp": [2696.84, 2701.28], "text": " boredom and frustration and a lot of sadness and grief. I forgot to add the"}, {"timestamp": [2701.28, 2706.8], "text": " grief down here number five. Frequent crashes."}, {"timestamp": [2706.8, 2709.52], "text": " So what happens when you're in a state of burnout"}, {"timestamp": [2709.52, 2711.96], "text": " is that you might feel okay,"}, {"timestamp": [2711.96, 2713.48], "text": " and then you go to the grocery store"}, {"timestamp": [2713.48, 2714.9], "text": " and then you get back from the grocery store"}, {"timestamp": [2714.9, 2717.38], "text": " and realize that you are now profoundly tired"}, {"timestamp": [2717.38, 2718.52], "text": " and you need a nap."}, {"timestamp": [2718.52, 2720.36], "text": " So that's what I call a crash."}, {"timestamp": [2720.36, 2721.88], "text": " You might not actually fall asleep,"}, {"timestamp": [2721.88, 2726.52], "text": " you might just end up kind of in this state on the couch"}, {"timestamp": [2726.52, 2729.44], "text": " where you're kind of not able to do anything,"}, {"timestamp": [2729.44, 2730.88], "text": " but you just need to rest."}, {"timestamp": [2732.36, 2737.36], "text": " Also, in my experience, being in a state of burnout,"}, {"timestamp": [2737.72, 2740.6], "text": " usually I get a couple hours of productivity a day,"}, {"timestamp": [2740.6, 2742.78], "text": " and by productivity, I don't mean like work, work, work,"}, {"timestamp": [2742.78, 2748.76], "text": " but I mean just like where I'm functional, right? and so right now I use that as time to catch up on"}, {"timestamp": [2748.76, 2754.54], "text": " email interact with my patreon supporters make a video or to work on my"}, {"timestamp": [2754.54, 2759.02], "text": " novel and then you know maybe get to the grocery store or take care of stuff"}, {"timestamp": [2759.02, 2763.32], "text": " around the house and then I'm done for the rest of the day so that might be"}, {"timestamp": [2763.32, 2765.6], "text": " like at most I get maybe five or six hours of being active and then I'm done for the rest of the day. So that might be like, at most I get maybe five"}, {"timestamp": [2765.6, 2767.24], "text": " or six hours of being active"}, {"timestamp": [2767.24, 2768.92], "text": " and then I have to spend the rest of the day"}, {"timestamp": [2768.92, 2770.78], "text": " resting and recovering."}, {"timestamp": [2770.78, 2775.12], "text": " And so then the emotions that come up with burnout."}, {"timestamp": [2775.12, 2777.14], "text": " One is boredom and frustration."}, {"timestamp": [2777.14, 2779.82], "text": " Yesterday, for instance, I made it a point"}, {"timestamp": [2779.82, 2782.14], "text": " to just have a lot of low-key activities."}, {"timestamp": [2782.14, 2784.4], "text": " I played some video games, I read some books,"}, {"timestamp": [2784.4, 2789.0], "text": " I watched some YouTube, I took a bath, right? And then it was three o'clock"}, {"timestamp": [2789.0, 2793.64], "text": " and I had done everything that I could and I was out of stuff to do so it's"}, {"timestamp": [2793.64, 2797.48], "text": " like, okay well now I'm just bored. I don't have the mental energy left to do"}, {"timestamp": [2797.48, 2800.2], "text": " anything, I certainly don't have the physical energy left, so what do I do? I"}, {"timestamp": [2800.2, 2804.6], "text": " just like basically sit on the couch with the dog for a while and that's"}, {"timestamp": [2804.6, 2809.98], "text": " really bored and it can also be really frustrating especially because I remember how much energy I used to have and that"}, {"timestamp": [2810.36, 2815.24], "text": " Is where the grief comes in because it's like oh, I'm actually living with a disability now"}, {"timestamp": [2815.8, 2822.98], "text": " And I don't mean that like capital D disability like I'm on government assistance, but mentally saying this feels like a disability"}, {"timestamp": [2823.44, 2825.36], "text": " That's a that's a tough pill to swallow."}, {"timestamp": [2826.24, 2831.6], "text": " And then finally, there's guilt, shame, and embarrassment that comes with that of saying,"}, {"timestamp": [2831.6, 2835.84], "text": " wow, I should be able to do this. I used to be able to do this. I can't do that anymore."}, {"timestamp": [2836.72, 2841.92], "text": " And that comes with the cultural baggage around work and productivity."}, {"timestamp": [2843.2, 2846.16], "text": " Speaking of, how do we prevent future burnout?"}, {"timestamp": [2846.16, 2847.52], "text": " So we're almost at the end of the video."}, {"timestamp": [2847.52, 2849.96], "text": " So if you have experienced burnout"}, {"timestamp": [2849.96, 2851.68], "text": " or are about to experience burnout"}, {"timestamp": [2851.68, 2853.32], "text": " or are in the middle of burnout"}, {"timestamp": [2853.32, 2855.12], "text": " or just recovering from burnout,"}, {"timestamp": [2857.44, 2859.08], "text": " one of the videos that I watched said,"}, {"timestamp": [2859.08, 2861.86], "text": " when you are healthy, you have a thousand wishes."}, {"timestamp": [2861.86, 2864.64], "text": " When you are unhealthy, you have one wish."}, {"timestamp": [2864.64, 2865.08], "text": " Right now I have one wish. Right now I"}, {"timestamp": [2865.08, 2869.76], "text": " have one wish which is to be healthy again. And in the future now that I have"}, {"timestamp": [2869.76, 2874.88], "text": " a word for it because this is I think the third time I've burned out, I don't"}, {"timestamp": [2874.88, 2881.08], "text": " ever want to experience burnout again. Three times is way too many. One time was"}, {"timestamp": [2881.08, 2887.0], "text": " too many but I didn't have a word for it at the time. So one one of the things that can happen, and I've read a bunch of books,"}, {"timestamp": [2887.0, 2891.0], "text": " so the books that I read, one was Do Nothing by Celeste Headley,"}, {"timestamp": [2891.0, 2894.0], "text": " number two was Laziness Does Not Exist by Devin Price,"}, {"timestamp": [2894.0, 2898.0], "text": " and number three was Burnout by Emily Nagoski."}, {"timestamp": [2898.0, 2899.0], "text": " So I read three books on burnout."}, {"timestamp": [2899.0, 2903.0], "text": " I did a workaholic about burnout in preparation for burning out,"}, {"timestamp": [2903.0, 2904.0], "text": " and it still didn't help."}, {"timestamp": [2904.0, 2908.4], "text": " But one of the things that they talk about is changing your orientation"}, {"timestamp": [2908.4, 2912.36], "text": " towards work and your attitudes towards productivity. And so what do I mean by"}, {"timestamp": [2912.36, 2916.24], "text": " this? What is it what is your orientation towards work? For many of us"}, {"timestamp": [2916.24, 2920.52], "text": " our work is our identity and so what I've been working on doing is"}, {"timestamp": [2920.52, 2929.24], "text": " de-identifying with my labor. My identity is more about the things that I enjoy and the values that I have now."}, {"timestamp": [2929.24, 2934.12], "text": " And then changing attitudes towards productivity."}, {"timestamp": [2934.12, 2941.16], "text": " This idea came from Sorella Moore when she was talking about how she has redefined productivity"}, {"timestamp": [2941.16, 2949.3], "text": " and so now she instead of saying like making money is productive no eating well is productive playing is productive connecting with loved ones is"}, {"timestamp": [2949.3, 2954.0], "text": " productive so redefining work and productivity is one of the key things"}, {"timestamp": [2954.0, 2957.76], "text": " that you can do and this is echoed in those books that I mentioned"}, {"timestamp": [2957.76, 2967.6], "text": " redefining what success looks like and I mentioned this earlier when I talked about reducing your ambition, right?"}, {"timestamp": [2967.6, 2973.4], "text": " And what I mean by that is like, oh wait, I've actually got a good enough house."}, {"timestamp": [2973.4, 2974.6], "text": " I don't need a bigger house."}, {"timestamp": [2974.6, 2976.8], "text": " Or I don't need a fancy car."}, {"timestamp": [2976.8, 2981.6], "text": " Or I don't need these materialistic expectations."}, {"timestamp": [2981.6, 2988.88], "text": " So letting go of materialism, which should have been obvious for me because I studied Zen, but because I live in America I got stuck"}, {"timestamp": [2988.88, 2994.52], "text": " in that materialistic mindset. And you know I can blame a lot of"}, {"timestamp": [2994.52, 2999.12], "text": " other things, but it's up to me to turn that off. So redefining what success"}, {"timestamp": [2999.12, 3005.0], "text": " looks like, particularly from a status perspective and a financial perspective."}, {"timestamp": [3005.02, 3008.16], "text": " That is a key thing, which is why like,"}, {"timestamp": [3008.16, 3010.32], "text": " after I realized like, actually,"}, {"timestamp": [3010.32, 3012.4], "text": " my support on Patreon is sustainable."}, {"timestamp": [3012.4, 3013.8], "text": " This is my job now."}, {"timestamp": [3013.8, 3015.5], "text": " I don't have a single boss."}, {"timestamp": [3015.5, 3016.34], "text": " That's great."}, {"timestamp": [3016.34, 3019.96], "text": " I am not beholden to any corporation or any one person."}, {"timestamp": [3019.96, 3023.24], "text": " No one person can fire me, so I have a lot more control."}, {"timestamp": [3023.24, 3025.94], "text": " Remember, lack of control was one of the key"}, {"timestamp": [3025.94, 3027.54], "text": " contributing factors to burnout."}, {"timestamp": [3028.52, 3032.44], "text": " Number three, challenge assumptions and cultural baggage."}, {"timestamp": [3032.44, 3034.2], "text": " So this is all wrapped up in like,"}, {"timestamp": [3034.2, 3036.74], "text": " okay, what assumptions do I have about me?"}, {"timestamp": [3036.74, 3039.52], "text": " What assumptions do I have about productivity?"}, {"timestamp": [3039.52, 3041.9], "text": " So for instance, what I mean by that is,"}, {"timestamp": [3041.9, 3046.12], "text": " as an extroverted man, I have had the assumption forever"}, {"timestamp": [3046.12, 3054.92], "text": " that I should have more friends. I should be more popular. I should, you know, be X,"}, {"timestamp": [3054.92, 3059.8], "text": " Y, and Z, and as I'm coming to terms with who I am, I'm actually a hermit, right?"}, {"timestamp": [3059.8, 3066.36], "text": " Like, because I'm HSP, because I'm gifted, that really sets me apart from most people"}, {"timestamp": [3066.36, 3070.96], "text": " and so I have to be very very picky about who I spend time with and the"}, {"timestamp": [3070.96, 3074.6], "text": " and the social groups that I associate with. And even then I have to kind of be"}, {"timestamp": [3074.6, 3079.0], "text": " careful about what I share because, and this has happened on plenty of my"}, {"timestamp": [3079.0, 3083.04], "text": " YouTube videos, where people are like, wow you're really pretentious because you use"}, {"timestamp": [3083.04, 3086.96], "text": " big words and I'm like, no, like I'm gifted."}, {"timestamp": [3086.96, 3088.6], "text": " I find words fascinating."}, {"timestamp": [3088.6, 3092.16], "text": " And just my use, my vocabulary can make some people feel insecure,"}, {"timestamp": [3092.3, 3094.1], "text": " which goes back to those norm violations."}, {"timestamp": [3094.1, 3097.26], "text": " And they feel like it's OK to bully or criticize someone"}, {"timestamp": [3097.5, 3100.84], "text": " just for making them feel inadequate or whatever is going on in their heads."}, {"timestamp": [3101.34, 3108.82], "text": " So by by challenging these assumptions, and I've done this by watching videos about people who live in a different way so"}, {"timestamp": [3108.82, 3112.78], "text": " I've been watching a lot of cottagecore videos. I've been watching Sorella Moore"}, {"timestamp": [3112.78, 3117.64], "text": " who she lives one way and I just discovered Jana Jenten or Jana Jenten"}, {"timestamp": [3117.64, 3122.92], "text": " the Swedish woman who lives in the middle of nowhere and I'm like that is"}, {"timestamp": [3122.92, 3128.04], "text": " actually how I want to live and making, like challenging it so that it's okay"}, {"timestamp": [3128.04, 3132.18], "text": " for me to say, actually I only need a couple friends,"}, {"timestamp": [3132.18, 3133.02], "text": " and that's fine."}, {"timestamp": [3134.28, 3139.28], "text": " And to extend this further, living more authentically"}, {"timestamp": [3139.4, 3141.84], "text": " in accordance with your personality,"}, {"timestamp": [3141.84, 3144.24], "text": " your physical limitations, your body,"}, {"timestamp": [3144.24, 3147.6], "text": " and also very importantly, your values."}, {"timestamp": [3149.12, 3155.84], "text": " I really struggle with corporate America, and so when I realized, it almost felt like a dream,"}, {"timestamp": [3155.84, 3162.32], "text": " when it's like, actually, no, I need to never work for a corporation again. That was a big"}, {"timestamp": [3162.32, 3166.28], "text": " revelation for me, and it took me weeks to come to terms with that."}, {"timestamp": [3166.28, 3172.0], "text": " So again, take your life in a different direction, right? Sometimes that means"}, {"timestamp": [3172.0, 3176.28], "text": " unplugging, sometimes that means moving, sometimes that means changing your"}, {"timestamp": [3176.28, 3182.76], "text": " relationships, so on and so forth. Learn to say no first, often, and by default."}, {"timestamp": [3182.76, 3186.32], "text": " Many of us are conditioned to say yes"}, {"timestamp": [3186.32, 3191.32], "text": " automatically. One book called that human giver syndrome. I think that was"}, {"timestamp": [3191.32, 3195.28], "text": " Burnout by Emily Nagoski. So human giver syndrome is that you're only allowed to"}, {"timestamp": [3195.28, 3200.56], "text": " say yes and if you say no people blow up at you because no is not acceptable. And"}, {"timestamp": [3200.56, 3205.88], "text": " if my recommendation is if someone doesn't accept no, banish them from your life."}, {"timestamp": [3205.88, 3209.72], "text": " And by learning to say no first and by default,"}, {"timestamp": [3209.72, 3211.48], "text": " that has made my life much better."}, {"timestamp": [3211.48, 3215.98], "text": " Especially as someone who is well-known in the space of AI,"}, {"timestamp": [3215.98, 3218.88], "text": " I have a lot of people asking for my time."}, {"timestamp": [3218.88, 3221.24], "text": " And it's weird how entitled some people are."}, {"timestamp": [3221.24, 3223.6], "text": " And when I say no, they're like, well, what about this?"}, {"timestamp": [3223.6, 3225.6], "text": " It's like, I said no. And"}, {"timestamp": [3225.6, 3230.16], "text": " I will actually block people who don't take no for an answer. And in fact, I deleted my LinkedIn"}, {"timestamp": [3230.16, 3236.32], "text": " because that's all I got was people who wouldn't take no for an answer and making offers that I"}, {"timestamp": [3236.32, 3241.84], "text": " didn't want to take. And I said, I would say, sign up for my Patreon. Here are the options."}, {"timestamp": [3241.84, 3247.8], "text": " And they're like, well, what about this other? I said, here are the options. And if they don't like those options, they can take a hike."}, {"timestamp": [3247.8, 3250.44], "text": " And then finally, be weird, queer, eccentric,"}, {"timestamp": [3250.44, 3252.84], "text": " offbeat, or whatever is your truth."}, {"timestamp": [3253.8, 3257.36], "text": " By living more authentically, by living more to your truth,"}, {"timestamp": [3257.36, 3260.68], "text": " I think that that is the best way to prevent future burnout."}, {"timestamp": [3261.8, 3264.28], "text": " So, this was a lot."}, {"timestamp": [3264.28, 3267.68], "text": " I hope it was helpful. Thank you and please consider"}, {"timestamp": [3267.68, 3273.64], "text": " supporting me on Patreon. All of my content is ad free and free on the"}, {"timestamp": [3273.64, 3278.88], "text": " internet and if you support me on Patreon I can do this indefinitely."}, {"timestamp": [3278.88, 3284.64], "text": " So patreon.com slash Dave Schapp. Thanks for watching. Cheers everybody."}, {"timestamp": [3284.64, 3288.2], "text": " Wow that was an hour."}, {"timestamp": [3281.51, 3284.39], "text": " But yeah, so patreon.com slash Dave Schapp."}, {"timestamp": [3284.39, 3285.37], "text": " Thanks for watching."}, {"timestamp": [3285.37, 3287.07], "text": " Cheers, everybody."}, {"timestamp": [3287.07, 3288.17], "text": " Wow, that was an hour."}]}