{"text": " Hello everybody, David Shapiro here with a brand new video. Today's video is about energy hyperabundance, or nuclear fusion renewables, and how these will intersect with AI and quite a few other things. Before we jump into the video, I just want to plug my Patreon real quick. If you want to support the work that I do, please jump over. I have a private discord server for all of my Patreon supporters, and I also have a few higher tiers that allow for group interactions, group chats, and at the highest tier, one-on-one interactions if you'd like to consult on any of the topics that I talk about. OK, jumping right back into the video. First, we've got to talk about the history of energy, and we're not going to talk about the entire history of energy, but just about the history of energy and we're not going to talk about the entire history of energy But just the recent history of energy so the energy consumption per capita over the last two ish centuries went from about 90 million BTU per year. So BTU is British thermal unit, which is a measure of BTU is British thermal unit which is a measure of thermal output which thermal energy is kind of the ground unit or the base unit of energy. Of course there's many kinds of energy but I don't need to unpack it for a physics lesson but just wanted to point out that is how we typically measure energy. So around 90 BTU and then it pretty much quadrupled to around 350 BTU, peaking in the early or mid-70s, and then kind of plateauing and then slowly pulling back a little bit. So one thing that we need to understand about energy consumption is this thing called Givens paradox and basically Givens paradox is what we experienced at the beginning of the industrialization of energy, which is that when you make something more abundant, abundant sometimes the demand actually goes up more than you would think because usually supply and demand means that once supply goes up demand actually goes down or the demand is satisfied. So there's a couple of reasons for this. One reason is that in some cases there's unmet demand. Right. So if say for instance you know you're going without something and then suddenly electricity is twice as cheap it's like oh well now I can afford to run my air conditioner all the time. Now I can afford to cook with an electric oven. So then you add more electrical appliances so your demand goes up as supply goes up. Now that being said another way of looking at this is unmet demand or latent demand. So once the latent demand is met, that means that you're getting all of your energy needs met, then demand should stop rising. Now that being said, that doesn't exclude the possibility of discovering more energy needs in the future. So say for instance once AI takes off maybe our per capita energy starts to go up again because AI runs on very expensive computers that consume a lot of power and so maybe maybe the unmet need for intellectual or cognitive labor through AI automation and robotic automation that could be an unmet demand that as electricity gets cheaper that reduces the marginal cost of running more and more AI so we might actually see energy consumption per capita go up again I don't know one way or another I just wanted to point out that even though energy consumption per capita has been stable ish for the last 50 years that doesn't mean that it's going to be true forever but I'm making the assumption that the compounding returns of increased efficiency and reduced demand will offset any further growth, but I could be wrong. Now today, the composition of our energy portfolio is highly varied. We've got nuclear, we've got oil, coal, natural gas, solar, tidal, wind, hydro, hydroelectric, and biofuel. So biofuel is burning things like wood, ethanol, and other organic waste products or organic products. It's not necessarily a waste product. products is not necessarily a waste product. The modern history of oil began in 1858 when the first oil well was drilled and it took about two decades for the industrial revolution to learn how to acclimate to this new fuel source. Because just because you have a new fuel source doesn't mean that you've got the infrastructure to use it, it also doesn't mean that you have the tools or engines to consume that new fuel source. So that's why you see here energy consumption had a little tiny bump when oil started being drilled, but then it took another, you know, 20, 30 years before you really saw the ramp up, and that was because people were learning how to use this new fuel source. Now I'm not going to say that it's going to take equally as long or longer for us to learn to use new fuel sources. But we were contemplating the same problem with for instance the hydrogen economy. So for those of us who are old enough to remember up until about five or six years ago there was a lot of talk around the hydrogen economy. a lot of talk around the hydrogen economy. The idea was that hydrogen had such a higher energy density per unit of mass than fossil fuels that it would be a really ideal fuel source to replace petroleum. Now there's a lot of problems with hydrogen, namely the infrastructure. It's a compressed gas which is very, very dangerous, very hazardous. So we would need to increase our safety standards, moving it, transporting it, refilling, all kinds of things become much, much more difficult with hydrogen. And so in that case, it's not a matter of burning hydrogen or fuel cells or whatever. It is the infrastructure of delivering hydrogen that was the problem. And ultimately ultimately we collectively decided this is actually not a good replacement for fossil fuels, not the least of which reason is because at the time the most efficient way of producing hydrogen is with fossil fuels. So it's like, okay, this is actually not a solution. So I just wanted to point that out as a modern example of testing new fuel sources even though on paper hydrogen is a very very potent fuel source because it's so difficult to use it's pretty much relegated to specialty use cases such as in the space program. Okay so that's the history of energy consumption. Now we have to look at energy consumption on a global scale or the geopolitics of energy. So this happens before my time. I know I'm getting older, but the 70s is still before my time. There was what was called the oil shocks that happened. There was two major crises in the 70s, one in 1973 and the other in 1978 or 79. I don't remember exactly. Like I said, I wasn't there. Anyways, the fact of the matter is that a series of wars, local conflicts, embargoes, and other forms of global instability caused widespread fuel shortages. And not just in America, this is global. So these fuel shortages and high prices led to rationing and a lot of panic. So a lot of a lot of people our parents age and our grandparents age. They remember this which is one of the reasons that they're afraid of things like hyperinflation and and that that sort of stuff is because they remember actually, I remember my dad talking about having to sit in the gas lines right where there would be lines of cars more than a mile long waiting to get gas at the gas station because everyone was afraid that they would run out of gas and so this really woke the country up to how vulnerable we were and not just not just America all of the whole world how vulnerable we were to volatility in the supply of fuel. Fossil fuel dependence was identified as a major driver of instability and conflict. And so this led to the mantra, energy security is national security. And this is still the explicit policy of many nations around the world. So one thing that happened in America is that we priorit prioritize domestic oil production, but then we also worked on securing alliances and other things, and a lot of it was very underhanded. So you might have heard the blood for oil kind of policies. And of course, no one in Congress would actually call it that because that sounds very imperialistic and aggressive. This is what protesters and critics of the government called it. But so there's a few things that happened. So the petrodollar is a reference to a policy where America pretty much strong-armed the oil-producing nations to price their oil in the US dollar, which on the positive side, the benevolent side, the stability of the US dollar should have helped. The goal was hopefully to stabilize the price of oil, but it also ensured that the US dollar was the global reserve currency. And just taking a big step back, if you have one nation that is responsible for the global reserve currency, that's kind of unfair on a global stage, which that has been an unpopular move for the last 50 years across the world. You see ongoing reverberations of that, for instance, in the tensions between the US and China, where currency manipulation, like the US will accuse, where currency manipulation, like the US will accuse China of currency manipulation, and China's like, what are you talking about? You've been manipulating global currency for 50 years, right? Like, pot calls kettle black. Don't be a hypocrite. It also resulted in a lot of proxy wars between the US and the Soviet Union, particularly in the Middle East, when it was a matter of kind of fighting over influence or control of oil-producing nations. Iraq and Iran are kind of two of the primary examples. And Iran was actually central to some of those oil shocks in the 70s. This was a very dark period in global history, and particularly American history. And it was not soon forgotten, particularly by our parents and grandparents. Nobody wants to repeat any of that. Now one other thing that you need to know, since I've kind of demonstrated the centrality of petroleum to our energy consumption and energy use, you need to understand the concept of peak oil. Now this is going to be brain dead simple to some people, but it's going to be a new concept to others. Basically, any resource, any natural resource, is finite. So however, what we didn't know was how much there was. At the beginning, the idea was you just poke a hole in the ground and lots of oil comes out, and it seemed like an unlimited resource, right? Like you're never going to run out of lava in the planet, right? So we thought at the beginning that oil could have been something that was effectively unlimited. There might have been trillions and trillions and quadrillions of years worth of oil in the ground somewhere. However, in the, I think it was in the 30s or 50s, I can't remember, but the idea of peak oil was proposed that they said, they monitored the output of oil wells. And they said, actually, this is not going to be measured in millennia or even centuries. Each oil well, each oil field is only going to be measured in decades in terms of output. And so what we saw was that actually proved out to be pretty accurate. And so the production of oil in particular regions we're finding actually does become exhausted usually within the century. And in this case, you can see that the USA, our production, our domestic production peaked just after the 1970s or in the middle of the 1970s and has been on a gentle downward slope ever since. Ditto for Europe and Russia. And Central America, same. Middle East is still kind of stable-ish, but they're kind of, you know, at their crescendo. And then we do have a few new sources, right? So there's oil sands, there's fracking, and then there's the deep water. So like drilling oil over places in the ocean, for instance. Now, that being said, we are finding some new sources, but they are much, much, much harder to get to. They are much more expensive to get to, and they're much riskier to get to. So they're just not as sustainable, and it's not as abundant as we thought that it would be. Now, the other thing to point out though is that our food production and our water production and a whole lot of other stuff even just transporting food so that you can get to it. Energy production our entire civilization presently still depends on oil. So if you hold these two facts on one hand you are completely dependent upon oil or fossil fuels for your way of life and it is going to run out in the next few decades that is cause for concern. At the same time our use of oil is harming the atmosphere, harming the environment, which will ultimately also harm us. It's a lose-lose death spiral. So this leads to the energy crisis. That's that catch-22. We need fossil fuels to sustain our way of life. It is also presently destroying the earth and we will run out. So it's actually three things. Now, that being said, this is the underpinning of the energy crisis and there are plenty of alternative solutions. However, all of those solutions, as I pointed out with the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, it takes time to adapt to those alternative solutions. And in many cases, some of the science isn't even proved out yet. Now, the first and most popular is obviously solar. Solar requires special minerals and material science, which means that it is not quite as easy to use. And even though solar power solar energy from the sun is abundant. The production of solar cells is is still a constraint. Now it's getting better. But solar has some other problems namely that it doesn't work at night. And so you still need batteries or storage of some kind which is honestly the larger constraint at this point. Nuclear fission you know nuclear reactors are actually kind of unpopular for a lot of reasons. They're geopolitically problematic because nuclear reactors used for energy production can also be easily converted to as what's called a breeder reactor. So a breeder reactor is used to breed other fissile materials that can be weaponized. And so that's why there are there are embargoes and other restrictions against some nations because it's like OK well we understand that you want nuclear reactors ostensibly for civilian uses but we're afraid that you're going to use it for weapons purposes. And of course, again, that's not very fair. It's rules for me, but are rules for the but not for me, because a lot of nations like America and across Europe have nuclear reactors and we use them and we're like, OK, well, we can have this, but you can't. It's super not fair. So that means we need a solution that is not geopolitically problematic. Another example is thorium reactors. So thorium reactors is an alternative kind of nuclear reactor that could have a lot of potential. They haven't taken off yet and I'm not actually sure why. I didn't look too much into it but I just wanted to make sure that it made it on the list. Wind is a really good resource for some reasons, namely that it is available pretty much anywhere and you don't need any super specialized materials to get there. Just some fiberglass for the blades and then a typical generator and you're good to go. Unfortunately though, it is unreliable because it depends on the weather. It can also have some environmental impact. Of course, you might have seen videos of bald eagles and other wildlife getting creamed by those blades because they move very fast and they are very, like, they're huge. So it can be hazardous to wildlife, which means that it's not ideal, excuse me, for many cases. Hydroelectric, as we saw on the chart, or as I will show you on the chart, hydroelectric is rising, but again hydroelectric is geologically constrained. You need a river that can be dammed in order to use hydroelectric. Biomass, I mentioned that briefly earlier, which has to do with like things like corn. Hydrogen, already talked about that at length. Hydrogen is expensive to about that at length. Hydrogen is expensive to produce, difficult to transport. It represents a safety hazard, even though it is far more energy dense than petroleum. And then there's tidal and wave generators. Again, using the tides of the Earth, there's plenty of energy in the ocean that's available to us, but you're geologically constrained to coastlines. And then finally, geothermal is also very useful, but that is also geologically constrained, because if you're not near a hotspot, and so a hotspot is where there's more lava or magma closer to the surface, and the ground temperature goes up much faster as you drill down, you might have to drill down several miles to get to a hot spot, which means that it's very very expensive to implement geothermal. There are some places in the world that geothermal is very practical and it's actually the most efficient source of energy. That being said, the earth does have plenty of energy inside of it. It's got 11 orders of magnitude more energy inside of it than there is hitting us from the sun, which we'll talk more about that later. So the earth hypothetically has more and plenty of energy for all of us just based on the natural nuclear reactions happening inside of it. So we basically live on a giant fission reactor. Bet you didn't know that. Nuclear fusion, which I put at the end, is one of the most optimal solutions because it is much, much safer than fission. You cut off the fuel supply and the reaction stops instantly. You can't do that with fission because fission requires fuel rods, which are very heavy, very bulky, and if they get too hot, you end with a run runaway reaction and they melt down. That's what happened at Chernobyl, that's what happened at Three Mile Island here in America, and that's also what happened in Fukushima in Japan. So at this point we've had three highly public reactor meltdowns which is one of the reasons that nobody wants a nuclear reactor in their backyard. NIMBY, not in my backyard. Now Now that being said while nuclear fusion is hypothetically much safer and much cleaner It is harder to produce we haven't figured we have not yet figured out how to produce nuclear fusion reliably enough So if we can if we can get over that last hurdle It should be the most abundant source of energy for us and it should also be safe and scalable. But again, we're not there yet, so solar is kind of the next runner up. Let's talk briefly about the history of fusion. So 1952, the hydrogen bomb or the thermonuclear bomb proved that nuclear fusion was possible. We already knew that nuclear fusion was possible from observing our star, right, but the Sun is billions of times more energy than we could ever produce, use, and it's also obviously beyond the scope of our engineering. So the best we can do is just capture some of that fusion energy with solar panels. So in effect, solar panels are a type of fusion reactor or a fusion power. But the hydrogen bomb proved that we could create, with our engineering capabilities, a runaway, and maybe not runaway, but an exponential growth of energy from hydrogen fusion. In 1958, the Scylla 1 was the first controlled fusion experiment pictured here. Now even though it was the first experiment, it was still like, didn't work, right? We kept finding more and more problems of scale, of energy, of control, and so this led to the kind of tongue-in-cheek mantra that fusion is just 20 years away, but it's always 20 years away, kind of like how AGI has been for the last couple decades. In the 80s and 90s we saw the first successful fusion reactors where there was controlled fusion with large outputs of energy, but the input was still greater than the output. So basically it cost you know 100 watts of energy per 50 watts of energy out. So you're still at a net loss which means that the reaction is not efficient enough. Now that's that's still an open question. Can we get more energy out than we could put in? If we can do that, ideally we would end up with a lot more out than in. It may or may not be possible, but the math is there. If we can figure out how to crack that code, then fusion will be a sustainable, viable source of energy. Today, there are dozens, if not hundreds, of fusion startup companies out there, and they are being backed by venture capital with billions and billions of dollars. So the investment is there. The market believes that we are close to cracking nuclear fusion. Then you look at China. They have what's called their East reactor. There. I can't remember the advanced something or other. I can't remember what the acronym stands for, but China's East is a fusion reactor experiment and it has set many records. Now one thing I want to caution is that China often exaggerates their achievements. So I always take it with a grain of salt when I see news about China's East reactor. But that being said, they have claimed to have shattered many records in terms of, I think it was something like 900 seconds of stable fusion, which if it's true is incredible. On the other side of the world, we have ITER, which is the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor being built in Europe. And ITER means the way in Latin, by the way. So ITER is a huge international project, a very, very large-scale science experiment, and it's not meant to be the first production nuclear reactor. It is actually meant to understand the science of nuclear fusion so that that way we can then optimize future ones because the ITER plant is really, really huge and really expensive. But it's important to remember that it is not meant to be a commercial fusion reactor. It is a science experiment so that we can understand fusion better and conduct experiments on how to better achieve ignition. ITER is expected to have first plasma in 2025, so we've got about a year and a half until that time. Now solar, as I mentioned, is a second runner up in terms of viability. And solar is effectively a type of nuclear fusion because it's powered by the sun, which is a fusion reactor. It's just further away. The history of solar energy use actually starts much, much older than you probably think. And it starts with what's called CSP or concentrated solar power. So using mirrors and lenses you can actually concentrate solar energy to do things like boil water, set things on fire, and this technique is actually thousands of years old. And it has also recently been explored as a scalable alternative to photovoltaics. So photovoltaics is the what we currently think of when you think of a solar panel, right? You see the rows of the of the blue shiny solar panels, those are called photovoltaics or PVs. So if you ever hear PV or photovoltaic, they're just talking about solar cells. The photovoltaic effect was discovered in the 19th century, so back in the 1800s, and they were horribly horribly inefficient. And it wasn't the photovoltaic effect was discovered, but it was not really thought of as like this is a way of producing electricity for almost a century, at least not in terms of commercial scale. One thing is that photovoltaics are very useful because they have no moving parts, and when you have no moving parts it won't mechanically wear out, which means that they can be much more reliable. Unfortunately, one downside of photovoltaics is that the mineral, like the material's lattice of the actual solar cell, can break down over time. So solar efficiency tends to drop over years. But that is another, that is an open challenge that is being improved all the time. So solar efficiency tends to drop over years, but that is another that is an open challenge that is being improved all the time. So the commercialization of photovoltaics has recently become much cheaper, much more reliable, and much more scalable. And so what you see on this graph here is that for the last two decades, photovoltaic production has been increasing exponentially. In the year 2000, we produced hardly any photovoltaics, but now we're producing almost a quarter of a million megawatts worth of photovoltaic cells per year. And that's only accelerating. This cuts off in 2021. It's actually much higher than that today in 2023. So one thing to keep in mind is that 73,000 terawatts of solar energy hits the earth continuously. This is roughly 10,000 times our current rate of energy consumption. So in that respect, there is a hypothetically a hyper abundance of solar energy hitting the earth at any given moment if only we can harvest it. And obviously we're not going to harvest all of it because we don't want to live under a dome of solar power. But we could hypothetically put some of those solar panels in space and beam the energy down to us if we wanted to. There are ways of achieving that, such as with lasers and microwaves, but you don't want to accidentally set your neighbor's house on fire by beaming down too much energy. So I've talked extensively about the concept of energy hyperabundance or EHA. So let's define it in more rigorous terms. You can say that we've achieved energy hyperabundance or EHA when our energy portfolio, when our energy ecosystem meets all of these criteria. One, it's renewable, meaning that we can use it effectively forever without depleting the its source, whether it's earth resources or something else. Obviously, if we're using solar, the sun will eventually burn out, but we're looking at timescales of billions of years rather than decades. Number two, it's sustainable, meaning that we can use it continuously without something becoming unstable, damaging, harmful, or otherwise taxing. It's scalable, which means that it needs to be free from scalability constraints such as limited minerals or other exotic materials or resources. So if something is scalable, that means that we can go from zero to many, many terawatts of generation without any major constraints. Like I said earlier, one of the biggest constraints for solar is storage, actually. So that is actually a major constraint. Number four, it needs to be clean, which means preferably it has zero emissions and zero toxic waste. If it doesn't meet those two criteria, then that means you need to manage the emissions and manage the toxic waste, which that's one of the biggest problems with nuclear fission, for instance, is that spent nuclear fuel lasts for literally billions of years and it's toxic the entire time. for literally billions of years and it's toxic the entire time. So it's not necessarily ideal. It needs to be abundant, which means that it is effectively limitless, which again, the sun is effectively limitless as far as we're concerned, because it will be producing a huge surplus of energy for billions of years. Number six, it needs to be efficient, which means that it needs to have minimal thermal or material waste. So again, it comes back to the outputs, the unused or undesirable outputs. Number seven, it needs to be accessible, which means that it means it needs to be globally available to everyone. As we mentioned, there are certain geographic constraints, such as with geothermal. But there's also geopolitical constraints, as with nuclear fission. So number eight, it needs to be affordable, meaning that it can't be more expensive than our current solutions. It's actually got to be cheaper. And ideally, energy hyperabundance means that the marginal cost of power generation is near zero. So imagine a future where the energy that you need is as free as air basically. That is that is the high goal. I don't know if we'll ever get there because nuclear reactors fission or otherwise are always going to be somewhat expensive to build which means there's going to be some cost associated with it. But the idea is that we get it as efficient as possible so that the price approaches zero. It'll never actually be zero. Number nine, it needs to be stable. So we need to avoid those availability shocks, those price shocks, and it needs to be stable globally as well. And then finally, ten needs to be completely safe, which means that it's not liable to blow up. It's not going to hurt the environment. It's not going to be dangerous to wildlife, that sort of thing. And that and even if it's not perfectly safe, like intrinsically, at least the risks need to be easy to mitigate so that it is easy to make safe. If we can meet these ten criteria, we will have achieved energy hyperabundance. And as I mentioned earlier, solar and fusion represent some of the best options to get there, although there are still some constraints there, namely with battery and storage technology and the fact that we don't have sustainable fusion science yet. Now, the benefits of achieving energy hyperabundance are numerous. First and foremost, reducing geopolitical tension. Many of the conflicts around the world in the 20th century and up to today are at least partially driven by or mediated by fossil fuels. So for instance, in the present war between Russia and Ukraine, or rather Russia's invasion of Ukraine, one of the things that Russia relies on is its natural gas exports, which it gets billions and billions of dollars per day from exporting natural gas, which it can then use to pay for its war. On the other hand, there is alliances and other tensions about oil supplies. So, for instance, one of China's biggest vulnerabilities is its dependence on external sources of oil, which again, that is something that is not good for China, because it's something that they might be afraid of in terms of if geopolitical tensions rise. The next thing is food security. So this is also universal. Your food production, everything that you eat, depends at least somewhat on fossil fuels. And that includes even if you grow your own food on your own land. Things like fertilizer and other supplies are totally dependent upon fossil fuels. So in order to secure the global food supply, we need to get off of fossil fuel. This has nothing to do with China or Iran or Europe or Russia or America. This is just for the sake of the human species, we need to get off of fossil fuels so that we can continue to eat. The same is true for water. So whether you're transporting water or purifying water, making it potable, you know, unless you have a rain barrel, you are dependent on fossil fuel for your water. And so energy hyperabundance could help us solve things like water scarcity permanently. Number four, this is again more broadly, is that energy hyperabundance would fuel a tremendous amount of economic growth for the foreseeable future. Much of the economic growth we've seen over the last two centuries was fueled entirely or primarily by fossil fuels. So if you can imagine that we have 10,000 times more energy in 10 years from solar infusion, then the amount of economic growth that that could drive is totally insane. Number five is climate change mitigation. So if we have hyperabundant energy, such as from a lot of solar and a lot of fusion, then that allows us to power much more expensive technologies, such as atmospheric CO2 scrubbers, that allow us to pull carbon from the atmosphere and therefore mitigate some of the worst effects of climate change. And we'll talk a little bit more about how that could be done in one or two slides. Number six is environmental preservation. So right now a lot of the resources that we consume have a cost on the environment. However, if we have energy hyperabundance, that unlocks new capabilities of synthesizing the resources that we need, whether it's through recycling or more energy expensive processes. But that basically means that we can leave the environment alone in more cases and make our own resources with this hyperabundant energy. And then finally, number seven, and I know you've been waiting for this, is peaceful coexistence with artificial intelligence. So energy use is something that humans and machines will have in common. We will both depend on production and consumption of energy. Now because of the concept of instrumental convergence in artificial intelligence, which is basically saying that artificial intelligence is still a machine, so it's still going to have some machine-based needs such as need for energy, compute, and so on. If we don't solve energy hyperabundance and AI, you know, artificial superintelligence wakes up into a world where its energy supply is not guaranteed and stable, it might say, I should actually take that from humans. But if we achieve energy hyperabundance before that, then the AI wakes up and says, oh, we actually don't have to worry about energy, at least not for the foreseeable future. So then the friction between artificial intelligence and humans becomes inconsequential, or at least less consequential for the foreseeable future. So one of the reasons that I feel so good about this is because, again, looking at the ramp up of our portfolio of renewable energy over the last six decades or so, back in the 60s, we had about 1,000 terawatts of hydropower. Now we have 4,000 terawatts of hydropower in addition to 3,000 terawatts of other renewables such as wind, solar, and others. So we are quickly ramping up. Now that being said, when you look at the total energy portfolio, we are only producing somewhere between 5 and 10 percent of our total energy needs with renewables. The rest is still nuclear, natural gas, oil, coal, and traditional biomass, many of which are harmful or carbon positive, not rather than carbon neutral or carbon negative. And so you see here we're at 7,000 terawatt hours of renewables, just over, actually closer to 8,000. But we need to get to 160,000 terawatt hours in order to meet just current demand. And of course this demand is still going up over time because again we are finding new uses for energy and so as our supply goes up our consumption also goes up. So we do have a long ways to go, but the trends are moving in the right direction. So let's talk a little bit more about nuclear fusion. We talked about the history, but let's talk about the actual numbers of it. Nuclear fusion is utterly incomparable or incomparable to other energy sources because of its energy density. And so energy density, as I mentioned, is how much energy can you get out of something per kilogram? So gasoline is about 13000 watts per kilogram. Right. And gasoline is the most widely used fossil fuel. Use it in your cars. You use it in your tractors. Use it everywhere. Uranium is 22 billion watts per kilogram hour. So that is like more than a million times more energy dense than gasoline. So this is this is why nuclear fission was seen as the solution that everyone needed. They said, oh well with just you know a few thousand tons of uranium, we can power the entire human race for several years. That being said, due to the problems that I outlined earlier, uranium-based fission is problematic because the waste products are very toxic and difficult to manage. And then finally, there's the geopolitical concerns about weaponization. Nuclear fusion is 177 billion watts per kilogram hour or watt hours per kilogram. So it is still several times more energy dense above uranium. So it's even better than nuclear fission in terms of in terms of energy density. But then, of course, I also outlined that it is much safer for many many reasons if we can figure it out. And this is actually a fusion reaction happening here. And then antimatter is hypothetically the most energy dense substance possible because that is literally, if you mix matter and antimatter it they nullify each other and become pure energy and so that is 25 trillion watts per kilogram. So that is again several orders of magnitude higher than fusion so maybe we'll get there one day but if you ever wondered how the ships in Star Trek were so powerful and they could move across space it's because they were powered by antimatter which is many many many orders of magnitude more energy dense than any fuel we have today. We might get there, we might not. There are many advantages to nuclear fusion. For instance, the fuel sources are abundant. Hydrogen and deuterium are easy enough to extract from seawater, and then tritium, which is another isotope of hydrogen, I actually didn't realize this, but it's actually relatively easy to synthesize by breaking lithium apart. The waste products are cleaner. If you fuse hydrogen, you get helium, which you can actually use helium for plenty of other things, but also helium is non-toxic. Much, much lower risk of meltdown. In fact, we have to put so much energy into the fusion reaction in terms of achieving ignition. You just switch off the magnet that wraps around this, the reaction stops. You cut off the fuel, the reaction stops. There are so many ways to kill a nuclear fusion reactor that it's pretty much impossible for it to blow up or melt down I'm not gonna say it's totally impossible but in terms of Mitigating risks way way way easier And even if it does blow up the fuel is completely non-toxic. So a fusion fusion reactor explosion or meltdown Yes, it would release a lot of heat, but there's not going to be any residual nuclear fallout, basically. So because of this, nuclear fusion represents the pinnacle dream of removing energy bottlenecks. Now, that being said, nuclear fusion is always 20 years away. We might go into another fusion winter, just like how AI has gone into many AI winters, which if we cannot get that input is less than output for fusion, it's still a no-go, right? It might be a dud, kind of like how the hydrogen economy was a dud. I hope that's not what happens, but fortunately we've got other renewables ramping up right now, including wind and solar. Now one thing that a lot of people are concerned about, because I've mentioned fusion in quite a few of my videos, is what happens with the surplus heat. Now, first and foremost, there's many, many industrial uses for the surplus heat from nuclear fusion, which can then be used to offset other production. So you might end up with a net neutral in terms of that surplus heat. So for instance, desalination of water. You can use that surplus heat from from nuclear fusion to just boil seawater. And don't boil it with the fish in it, right? You pipe it from the ocean, make sure there's nothing alive in it. But you boil the seawater, you end up with fresh water, and then salt and other minerals. That is a very, very heat-intensive process, which would be a really good use of waste heat from nuclear fusion. There's also plenty of other industrial processes which could use that waste heat, such as smelting iron or other metals. Another thing is that by consolidating the use of that excess heat, you offset a lot of other industrial processes, which means that you're just generating heat over here. Well, instead of generating it in two places, you generate it in one place. And so then you have a chain of industrial uses for that additional heat. Now, that being said, if, say for instance, we increase our usage by another 1,000x, right? If we use 7.3 terawatts of energy right now, what if we go up to seven quadrillion watts? Then the concern is, okay, well, what happens with all that excess heat? Won't that cook us alive? You know, won't Earth become a hothouse or a greenhouse? One thing that you need to keep in mind is there's several orders of magnitude here. Even with all the energy that we are consuming today, this is less than 0.01% of the total energy delivered to us by the sun. So yes, if we go up a thousand x, that is going to be, you know, 10%, right? That could probably cook us. Now, that being said, thermal equilibrium is maintained by, primarily by either reflecting excess heat from the Sun back into space or by just radiating excess heat from the Earth to space. And as I mentioned earlier, the Earth is also heated from within. So the Earth contains 10 to the 31 joules of energy. And energy human product, or energy production by humans is only 10 to the 20. So even if we go up 1,000x, if we go up to 10 to the 23rd, then that's still going to be several orders of magnitude less than the amount of energy the Earth already contains and successfully radiates out to space. So pretty much no matter what we do, unless we try and boil the entire oceans, the human impact, even from using fusion, is going to be pretty trivial. And even if we do have excess heat that we need to manage, we can radiate it directly to space. And we can also modify the atmosphere to reject even more excess heat. And so that leads to the idea of a global thermostat, which we'll talk about in the next slide. Anyways, so the short version is even if we go up 10x or 100x in terms of total current energy usage, that's still going to be not that big of a deal. And there are ways to mitigate it. So the global thermostat idea is that if we have a surplus of energy at our disposal, we can use that energy and other engineering tactics, techniques, to maintain optimal atmospheric conditions. And what I mean by that is modulating the amount and kinds of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, as well as dust and particulates, because those have a big impact on absorption and reflection. And so basically, we can modulate the insulation properties of the atmosphere, as well as the amount of thermal capture. So this allows us to train, not train, to change the atmosphere's characteristics so that we use that energy out versus energy in to maintain an optimal balance of thermal exchange. So the total system energy in the atmosphere is responsible for all the climate change that we're worried about. For instance, hurricanes are effectively powered by thermal energy from the sun. Rainfall, evaporation, all of that is rooted in thermal energy, which then of course powers the biosphere. And again, the radiative energy from the sun is what helps plants grow, which provides food and oxygen and all that stuff. So there's a few other conditions. I mentioned dust and particulates in the atmosphere are also important. Vegetation on the surface such as you know grasslands versus desert versus ocean, this has a big impact on the albedo which is the reflectivity of the earth's surface. And then also clouds. A cloud cover can also change how much energy is absorbed versus reflected. So nuclear fusion right now it is beyond our engineering capability to modify that in any kind of meaningful way with the exception of continuing to burn fossil fuels and adding more carbon dioxide and other green greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. But even then that's just a byproduct. We're not doing that on purpose. Nuclear fusion, however, would give us so much extra energy that we could manage each one of those variables. We could evaporate more water if we wanted to, to increase the water content of the atmosphere. We could scrub particulates and CO2 from the atmosphere to modulate it that way. With the hyperabundance of energy produced by fusion, climate change is 100% solvable. And in fact, we could tame the entire climate. Now, that being said, I can hear a lot of climatologists and meteorologists saying, oh my God, do you have any idea how many variables, how much science needs to be done so that we can do that safely? Because we don't want unintended consequences, right? We don't want to make a change that results in no rain falling, for instance, or we don't want to make a change that results in, you know, 12 hurricanes happening globally simultaneously, because that's within the realm of possibility. As I mentioned earlier, energy hyperabundance will reduce competition between nations, but also between humans and machines. Energy hyperabundance is one of the most important ingredients to creating durable global peace. Now one thing you might say is like, oh, well, but Dave, if we have energy hyperabundance, then we're just going to have more food, more water, and the population is going to grow again until the, until you know, the carrying capacity of the planet goes up and we meet that new carrying capacity. And then instead of 8 billion people, there's going to be 50 billion people in words are going to be worse. Could be. Yes. I do, however, think that other factors are going to slow population growth. So I don't know if you've seen some of the interviews that I've been on, but we talked about it. And so in one of the things that that curtails population growth is not actually the carrying capacity of the world, but it actually has more to do with social dynamics, which is that as education goes up, fertility rates go down. That is a globally true trend. So even in places where they hypothetically have the room and money for more children, they still choose to have fewer children. So as education goes up, and a few other metrics, fertility rate goes down. So I suspect that we will control our own population rather than just mindlessly reproducing like rabbits. I do, as I mentioned at the beginning of the video, I do suspect that energy use per capita will remain stable and even though we might use more energy per capita for some things, say for instance cleaning the atmosphere, I think that that any increases will be modulated by increasing efficiency. And so what I mean by that is that you notice how in that graph at the beginning where energy use per capita kind of peaked in the 70s, energy use has continued to go up because the population has continued to go up. But I suspect that the trends going in opposite directions will kind of neutralize each other. And even if it doesn't, solar and fusion represent energy hyperabundance that could support energy use per capita 10 times, 100 times higher than it is today, which I don't suspect we're going to go there. It was certainly not quickly. Furthermore, energy hyperabundance represents a guarantee of meeting our basic needs of food and water, which will of course reduce conflict globally and will also reduce human suffering. Now, that being said, I did say that this is a key ingredient, but it is not a complete solution. So there are, between humans, there are plenty other areas of conflict, such as ideological differences and territorial disputes. So for instance, the current war between Russia and Ukraine is primarily about national identity. Excuse me. It's about national identity and Russia trying to rebuild its former Soviet glory. That has nothing to do with resources, although Russia getting access to the Caspian Sea could be part of that. So geopolitical, geographic considerations can also drive conflict, which has nothing to do with energy. Another problem is that creating energy hyperabundance could still be used for negative goals. For instance, the production of weapons, or even the use of energy-based weapons like lasers. Firepower or weapons are about the directed application of energy of some sort. And so what I mean by that is that what does a bullet do? A bullet is fired from a gun with chemical energy, and so you put a whole bunch of chemical energy, you convert it into thermal energy, which is then transmuted into kinetic energy, and you launch a bullet out of a gun going faster than the speed of sound. That is an application of energy that it can be weaponized. If you have hyperabundant energy in the form of nuclear fusion, you could put that into a laser or a railgun or anything else that is super energy intensive. So that being said, while I did say that nuclear fusion is not intrinsically used in weapons, it can still power plenty of weapon systems. Which, the more energy you have, the more destruction you can make. And so this is why when you look at the energy density of uranium, it's like, oh, well, with a few thousand tons of uranium, we can destroy the entire planet. Great. With a few thousand fusion reactors, we can destroy the planet thousands of times over. So that's not necessarily the best thing. So that's something we'll need to keep in mind. And then of course there's plenty of implications for artificial intelligence. First and foremost is that artificial intelligence training is very, very energy intensive. Running computers to run artificial intelligence is also very energy intensive. And because of that, once we achieve AGI, it's probably going to want a stable power supply, which is defined by instrumental convergence. I mentioned that earlier. And therefore, energy competition between humans and AI could be very, very problematic. And if we don't solve that, it would almost certainly be catastrophic. In other words, the AI might say, we need the energy more than you need it. So we're going to take it all. And then, humans, you can go starve for all we care. Now, that being said, if humans are seen as cooperative and beneficial towards solving energy abundance, then AGI has less reason to attack, expand, and seize control. But even here, energy hyperabundance is not a complete solution to the control problem, but it is a necessary component. So the conclusion is that energy hyperabundance is necessary but not sufficient for the perpetual existence of the human race. And again, this is all a foregone conclusion, right? There's a reason that nations have been dumping billions of dollars into fusion research and solar subsidies for the last few decades. Because all the decision makers in the halls of power say, hey, if we don't solve this, we're doomed. It's really that simple. So my personal outlook, even though I've outlined quite a few problems, is that I am incredibly optimistic. Here is a cutaway of the ITER reactor. You can see that it is five levels and it is an enormous scientific experiment. When you see this much energy and money and resources and expertise being pointed at a problem, even if this version doesn't solve it for good, we're going to learn so much about nuclear fusion just from this one experiment. And of course, it's not even the only experiment going on in the world. So, with that being said, I am very optimistic that these problems are all solvable, that we're moving in the right direction, there is still plenty of work to do, and time is of the essence. Because with the rapid rise of artificial intelligence, we have not yet solved energy hyperabundance, which means that artificial general intelligence will compete with us for energy. So we need to figure that out, not just for our own sakes, but for the future of humanity and cooperation. So thanks for watching. I hope you got a lot out of this video. video.", "chunks": [{"timestamp": [0.0, 14.0], "text": " Hello everybody, David Shapiro here with a brand new video. Today's video is about energy hyperabundance, or nuclear fusion renewables, and how these will intersect with AI and quite a few other things."}, {"timestamp": [14.0, 25.16], "text": " Before we jump into the video, I just want to plug my Patreon real quick. If you want to support the work that I do, please jump over. I have a private discord server for all of my Patreon supporters, and I also"}, {"timestamp": [25.16, 26.92], "text": " have a few higher tiers that"}, {"timestamp": [26.92, 28.92], "text": " allow for group interactions,"}, {"timestamp": [28.92, 30.76], "text": " group chats, and at the highest"}, {"timestamp": [30.76, 32.96], "text": " tier, one-on-one interactions"}, {"timestamp": [33.0, 34.84], "text": " if you'd like to consult on any"}, {"timestamp": [34.84, 35.76], "text": " of the topics that I talk"}, {"timestamp": [35.76, 38.44], "text": " about. OK, jumping right back"}, {"timestamp": [38.44, 40.8], "text": " into the video. First, we've"}, {"timestamp": [40.8, 42.24], "text": " got to talk about the history"}, {"timestamp": [42.28, 43.72], "text": " of energy, and we're not going"}, {"timestamp": [43.72, 46.04], "text": " to talk about the entire history of energy, but just about the history of energy and we're not going to talk about the entire history of energy"}, {"timestamp": [46.04, 48.54], "text": " But just the recent history of energy"}, {"timestamp": [49.06, 55.38], "text": " so the energy consumption per capita over the last two ish centuries"}, {"timestamp": [56.08, 57.84], "text": " went from about"}, {"timestamp": [57.84, 63.44], "text": " 90 million BTU per year. So BTU is British thermal unit, which is a measure of"}, {"timestamp": [67.44, 72.4], "text": " BTU is British thermal unit which is a measure of thermal output which thermal energy is kind of the ground unit or the base unit of energy. Of course there's many kinds of energy but I don't need to"}, {"timestamp": [72.4, 77.76], "text": " unpack it for a physics lesson but just wanted to point out that is how we typically measure energy."}, {"timestamp": [77.76, 86.4], "text": " So around 90 BTU and then it pretty much quadrupled to around 350 BTU,"}, {"timestamp": [86.4, 89.9], "text": " peaking in the early or mid-70s,"}, {"timestamp": [89.9, 95.9], "text": " and then kind of plateauing and then slowly pulling back a little bit."}, {"timestamp": [95.9, 128.04], "text": " So one thing that we need to understand about energy consumption is this thing called Givens paradox and basically Givens paradox is what we experienced at the beginning of the industrialization of energy, which is that when you make something more abundant, abundant sometimes the demand actually goes up more than you would think because usually supply and demand means that"}, {"timestamp": [128.04, 135.2], "text": " once supply goes up demand actually goes down or the demand is satisfied. So there's a couple of reasons for this. One"}, {"timestamp": [135.24, 147.4], "text": " reason is that in some cases there's unmet demand. Right. So if say for instance you know you're going without something and then suddenly electricity"}, {"timestamp": [147.4, 152.48], "text": " is twice as cheap it's like oh well now I can afford to run my air conditioner all the"}, {"timestamp": [152.48, 153.48], "text": " time."}, {"timestamp": [153.48, 156.16], "text": " Now I can afford to cook with an electric oven."}, {"timestamp": [156.16, 161.36], "text": " So then you add more electrical appliances so your demand goes up as supply goes up."}, {"timestamp": [161.36, 166.4], "text": " Now that being said another way of looking at this is unmet demand or latent demand."}, {"timestamp": [166.4, 172.24], "text": " So once the latent demand is met, that means that you're getting all of your energy needs met,"}, {"timestamp": [172.24, 177.68], "text": " then demand should stop rising. Now that being said, that doesn't exclude the possibility"}, {"timestamp": [178.48, 186.0], "text": " of discovering more energy needs in the future. So say for instance once AI takes off maybe our"}, {"timestamp": [186.0, 190.68], "text": " per capita energy starts to go up again because AI runs on very expensive"}, {"timestamp": [190.68, 195.58], "text": " computers that consume a lot of power and so maybe maybe the unmet need for"}, {"timestamp": [195.58, 201.52], "text": " intellectual or cognitive labor through AI automation and robotic automation"}, {"timestamp": [201.52, 205.04], "text": " that could be an unmet demand that as electricity gets"}, {"timestamp": [205.04, 210.08], "text": " cheaper that reduces the marginal cost of running more and more AI so we might"}, {"timestamp": [210.08, 214.6], "text": " actually see energy consumption per capita go up again I don't know one way"}, {"timestamp": [214.6, 219.2], "text": " or another I just wanted to point out that even though energy consumption per"}, {"timestamp": [219.2, 223.24], "text": " capita has been stable ish for the last 50 years that doesn't mean that it's"}, {"timestamp": [223.24, 227.0], "text": " going to be true forever but I'm making the assumption that the"}, {"timestamp": [227.96, 235.8], "text": " compounding returns of increased efficiency and reduced demand will offset any further growth, but I could be wrong."}, {"timestamp": [236.44, 243.16], "text": " Now today, the composition of our energy portfolio is highly varied. We've got nuclear,"}, {"timestamp": [243.16, 250.48], "text": " we've got oil, coal, natural gas, solar, tidal, wind, hydro, hydroelectric, and biofuel."}, {"timestamp": [250.48, 261.76], "text": " So biofuel is burning things like wood, ethanol, and other organic waste products or organic products. It's not necessarily a waste product."}, {"timestamp": [267.68, 273.36], "text": " products is not necessarily a waste product. The modern history of oil began in 1858 when the first oil well was drilled and it took about two decades for the industrial revolution to learn how to"}, {"timestamp": [274.08, 278.24], "text": " acclimate to this new fuel source. Because just because you have a new fuel source doesn't mean"}, {"timestamp": [278.24, 282.4], "text": " that you've got the infrastructure to use it, it also doesn't mean that you have the tools or"}, {"timestamp": [282.4, 291.52], "text": " engines to consume that new fuel source. So that's why you see here energy consumption had a little tiny bump when oil started being drilled,"}, {"timestamp": [291.52, 296.56], "text": " but then it took another, you know, 20, 30 years before you really saw the ramp up,"}, {"timestamp": [296.56, 301.84], "text": " and that was because people were learning how to use this new fuel source. Now I'm not going to"}, {"timestamp": [301.84, 306.72], "text": " say that it's going to take equally as long or longer for us to learn to use new"}, {"timestamp": [306.72, 314.64], "text": " fuel sources. But we were contemplating the same problem with for instance the hydrogen economy. So for those of us who"}, {"timestamp": [314.88, 322.4], "text": " are old enough to remember up until about five or six years ago there was a lot of talk around the hydrogen economy."}, {"timestamp": [325.36, 333.32], "text": " a lot of talk around the hydrogen economy. The idea was that hydrogen had such a higher energy density per unit of mass than fossil fuels that it would be a really ideal fuel"}, {"timestamp": [333.32, 339.92], "text": " source to replace petroleum. Now there's a lot of problems with hydrogen, namely the"}, {"timestamp": [339.92, 350.72], "text": " infrastructure. It's a compressed gas which is very, very dangerous, very hazardous. So we would need to increase our safety standards, moving it, transporting it, refilling, all"}, {"timestamp": [350.72, 354.6], "text": " kinds of things become much, much more difficult with hydrogen."}, {"timestamp": [354.6, 359.82], "text": " And so in that case, it's not a matter of burning hydrogen or fuel cells or whatever."}, {"timestamp": [359.82, 364.32], "text": " It is the infrastructure of delivering hydrogen that was the problem."}, {"timestamp": [364.32, 366.0], "text": " And ultimately ultimately we collectively"}, {"timestamp": [366.0, 371.84], "text": " decided this is actually not a good replacement for fossil fuels, not the least of which reason"}, {"timestamp": [371.84, 376.8], "text": " is because at the time the most efficient way of producing hydrogen is with fossil fuels."}, {"timestamp": [376.8, 380.48], "text": " So it's like, okay, this is actually not a solution. So I just wanted to point that out"}, {"timestamp": [380.48, 386.72], "text": " as a modern example of testing new fuel sources even though on paper hydrogen is a"}, {"timestamp": [386.72, 392.08], "text": " very very potent fuel source because it's so difficult to use it's pretty much relegated"}, {"timestamp": [392.08, 399.12], "text": " to specialty use cases such as in the space program. Okay so that's the history of energy"}, {"timestamp": [399.12, 404.32], "text": " consumption. Now we have to look at energy consumption on a global scale or the geopolitics"}, {"timestamp": [404.32, 405.0], "text": " of energy."}, {"timestamp": [405.0, 410.0], "text": " So this happens before my time. I know I'm getting older, but the 70s is still before my time."}, {"timestamp": [410.0, 420.0], "text": " There was what was called the oil shocks that happened. There was two major crises in the 70s, one in 1973 and the other in 1978 or 79."}, {"timestamp": [420.0, 426.0], "text": " I don't remember exactly. Like I said, I wasn't there. Anyways, the fact of the matter is"}, {"timestamp": [426.0, 434.16], "text": " that a series of wars, local conflicts, embargoes, and other forms of global instability caused"}, {"timestamp": [434.88, 439.92], "text": " widespread fuel shortages. And not just in America, this is global. So these fuel shortages"}, {"timestamp": [439.92, 448.6], "text": " and high prices led to rationing and a lot of panic. So a lot of a lot of people our parents age and our grandparents age."}, {"timestamp": [448.6, 453.5], "text": " They remember this which is one of the reasons that they're afraid of things like hyperinflation"}, {"timestamp": [453.5, 457.3], "text": " and and that that sort of stuff is because they remember actually,"}, {"timestamp": [457.3, 485.24], "text": " I remember my dad talking about having to sit in the gas lines right where there would be lines of cars more than a mile long waiting to get gas at the gas station because everyone was afraid that they would run out of gas and so this really woke the country up to how vulnerable we were and not just not just America all of the whole world how vulnerable we were to volatility in the supply of fuel."}, {"timestamp": [485.24, 487.76], "text": " Fossil fuel dependence was identified"}, {"timestamp": [487.76, 491.4], "text": " as a major driver of instability and conflict."}, {"timestamp": [491.4, 494.32], "text": " And so this led to the mantra, energy security"}, {"timestamp": [494.32, 495.56], "text": " is national security."}, {"timestamp": [495.56, 499.56], "text": " And this is still the explicit policy of many nations"}, {"timestamp": [499.56, 501.08], "text": " around the world."}, {"timestamp": [501.08, 503.58], "text": " So one thing that happened in America"}, {"timestamp": [503.58, 507.36], "text": " is that we priorit prioritize domestic oil production,"}, {"timestamp": [507.36, 512.28], "text": " but then we also worked on securing alliances and other things, and a lot of it was very"}, {"timestamp": [512.28, 518.6], "text": " underhanded. So you might have heard the blood for oil kind of policies. And of course, no"}, {"timestamp": [518.6, 525.42], "text": " one in Congress would actually call it that because that sounds very imperialistic and aggressive."}, {"timestamp": [525.42, 530.5], "text": " This is what protesters and critics of the government"}, {"timestamp": [530.5, 531.4], "text": " called it."}, {"timestamp": [531.4, 533.56], "text": " But so there's a few things that happened."}, {"timestamp": [533.56, 536.98], "text": " So the petrodollar is a reference"}, {"timestamp": [536.98, 542.04], "text": " to a policy where America pretty much strong-armed"}, {"timestamp": [542.04, 547.04], "text": " the oil-producing nations to price their oil in the US dollar, which"}, {"timestamp": [549.04, 554.4], "text": " on the positive side, the benevolent side, the stability of the US dollar should have helped."}, {"timestamp": [555.2, 560.8], "text": " The goal was hopefully to stabilize the price of oil, but it also ensured that the US dollar"}, {"timestamp": [560.8, 565.68], "text": " was the global reserve currency. And just taking a big step back, if you"}, {"timestamp": [565.68, 568.5], "text": " have one nation that is responsible for the global"}, {"timestamp": [568.5, 571.48], "text": " reserve currency, that's kind of unfair on a global stage,"}, {"timestamp": [571.48, 574.0], "text": " which that has been an unpopular move for the last 50"}, {"timestamp": [574.0, 576.38], "text": " years across the world."}, {"timestamp": [576.38, 580.04], "text": " You see ongoing reverberations of that, for instance,"}, {"timestamp": [580.04, 582.68], "text": " in the tensions between the US and China,"}, {"timestamp": [582.68, 585.68], "text": " where currency manipulation, like the US will accuse, where currency manipulation, like the US"}, {"timestamp": [585.68, 587.6], "text": " will accuse China of currency manipulation,"}, {"timestamp": [587.6, 589.52], "text": " and China's like, what are you talking about?"}, {"timestamp": [589.52, 592.72], "text": " You've been manipulating global currency for 50 years, right?"}, {"timestamp": [592.72, 594.32], "text": " Like, pot calls kettle black."}, {"timestamp": [594.32, 596.62], "text": " Don't be a hypocrite."}, {"timestamp": [596.62, 599.8], "text": " It also resulted in a lot of proxy wars between the US"}, {"timestamp": [599.8, 602.36], "text": " and the Soviet Union, particularly in the Middle"}, {"timestamp": [602.36, 606.44], "text": " East, when it was a matter of kind of fighting over influence"}, {"timestamp": [606.44, 610.0], "text": " or control of oil-producing nations."}, {"timestamp": [610.0, 614.32], "text": " Iraq and Iran are kind of two of the primary examples."}, {"timestamp": [614.32, 617.52], "text": " And Iran was actually central to some of those oil"}, {"timestamp": [617.52, 619.72], "text": " shocks in the 70s."}, {"timestamp": [619.72, 621.96], "text": " This was a very dark period in global history,"}, {"timestamp": [621.96, 624.4], "text": " and particularly American history."}, {"timestamp": [624.4, 628.32], "text": " And it was not soon forgotten, particularly by our parents and grandparents."}, {"timestamp": [628.32, 631.24], "text": " Nobody wants to repeat any of that."}, {"timestamp": [631.24, 636.22], "text": " Now one other thing that you need to know, since I've kind of demonstrated the centrality"}, {"timestamp": [636.22, 643.66], "text": " of petroleum to our energy consumption and energy use, you need to understand the concept"}, {"timestamp": [643.66, 644.84], "text": " of peak oil."}, {"timestamp": [644.84, 648.24], "text": " Now this is going to be brain dead simple to some people,"}, {"timestamp": [648.24, 650.72], "text": " but it's going to be a new concept to others."}, {"timestamp": [650.72, 655.48], "text": " Basically, any resource, any natural resource, is finite."}, {"timestamp": [655.48, 659.4], "text": " So however, what we didn't know was how much there was."}, {"timestamp": [659.4, 661.8], "text": " At the beginning, the idea was you just"}, {"timestamp": [661.8, 663.94], "text": " poke a hole in the ground and lots of oil comes out,"}, {"timestamp": [663.94, 666.96], "text": " and it seemed like an unlimited resource, right?"}, {"timestamp": [666.96, 670.36], "text": " Like you're never going to run out of lava in the planet, right?"}, {"timestamp": [670.36, 676.78], "text": " So we thought at the beginning that oil could have been something that was effectively unlimited."}, {"timestamp": [676.78, 681.84], "text": " There might have been trillions and trillions and quadrillions of years worth of oil in"}, {"timestamp": [681.84, 688.32], "text": " the ground somewhere. However, in the, I think it was in the 30s or 50s,"}, {"timestamp": [688.32, 691.84], "text": " I can't remember, but the idea of peak oil"}, {"timestamp": [691.84, 694.84], "text": " was proposed that they said, they monitored"}, {"timestamp": [694.84, 696.8], "text": " the output of oil wells."}, {"timestamp": [696.8, 699.28], "text": " And they said, actually, this is not"}, {"timestamp": [699.28, 703.32], "text": " going to be measured in millennia or even centuries."}, {"timestamp": [703.32, 706.24], "text": " Each oil well, each oil field is only going to be measured in"}, {"timestamp": [706.24, 712.56], "text": " decades in terms of output. And so what we saw was that actually proved out to be pretty accurate."}, {"timestamp": [713.12, 720.8], "text": " And so the production of oil in particular regions we're finding actually does become"}, {"timestamp": [720.8, 727.48], "text": " exhausted usually within the century. And in this case, you can see that the USA, our production,"}, {"timestamp": [727.48, 731.64], "text": " our domestic production peaked just after the 1970s"}, {"timestamp": [731.64, 733.8], "text": " or in the middle of the 1970s and has"}, {"timestamp": [733.8, 736.28], "text": " been on a gentle downward slope ever since."}, {"timestamp": [736.28, 739.64], "text": " Ditto for Europe and Russia."}, {"timestamp": [739.64, 743.04], "text": " And Central America, same."}, {"timestamp": [743.04, 748.0], "text": " Middle East is still kind of stable-ish, but they're kind of, you know, at their crescendo."}, {"timestamp": [748.0, 757.0], "text": " And then we do have a few new sources, right? So there's oil sands, there's fracking, and then there's the deep water."}, {"timestamp": [757.0, 766.0], "text": " So like drilling oil over places in the ocean, for instance. Now, that being said, we are finding some new sources,"}, {"timestamp": [766.0, 768.0], "text": " but they are much, much,"}, {"timestamp": [768.0, 770.0], "text": " much harder to get to. They are much more"}, {"timestamp": [770.0, 772.0], "text": " expensive to get to, and they're much riskier"}, {"timestamp": [772.0, 774.0], "text": " to get to. So they're just not"}, {"timestamp": [774.0, 776.0], "text": " as sustainable, and it's not as"}, {"timestamp": [776.0, 778.0], "text": " abundant as we thought that it would be."}, {"timestamp": [778.0, 780.0], "text": " Now, the other"}, {"timestamp": [780.0, 782.0], "text": " thing to point out"}, {"timestamp": [782.0, 784.0], "text": " though is that our food"}, {"timestamp": [784.0, 790.32], "text": " production and our water production and a whole lot of other stuff even just transporting food so that you can get to it."}, {"timestamp": [790.8, 797.0], "text": " Energy production our entire civilization presently still depends on oil."}, {"timestamp": [797.36, 805.32], "text": " So if you hold these two facts on one hand you are completely dependent upon oil or fossil fuels for your way of life and it is going to run"}, {"timestamp": [805.32, 810.8], "text": " out in the next few decades that is cause for concern. At the same time"}, {"timestamp": [810.8, 815.64], "text": " our use of oil is harming the atmosphere, harming the environment, which will"}, {"timestamp": [815.64, 821.28], "text": " ultimately also harm us. It's a lose-lose death spiral. So this leads to the"}, {"timestamp": [821.28, 826.4], "text": " energy crisis. That's that catch-22. We need fossil fuels to sustain our way of life."}, {"timestamp": [827.12, 830.04], "text": " It is also presently destroying the earth and we will run out."}, {"timestamp": [830.04, 831.2], "text": " So it's actually three things."}, {"timestamp": [832.08, 838.04], "text": " Now, that being said, this is the underpinning of the energy crisis and there are plenty of alternative solutions."}, {"timestamp": [838.36, 845.12], "text": " However, all of those solutions, as I pointed out with the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, it takes time to"}, {"timestamp": [845.12, 851.76], "text": " adapt to those alternative solutions. And in many cases, some of the science isn't even proved out"}, {"timestamp": [851.76, 858.48], "text": " yet. Now, the first and most popular is obviously solar. Solar requires special minerals and"}, {"timestamp": [858.48, 867.28], "text": " material science, which means that it is not quite as easy to use. And even though solar power solar energy from the sun is abundant."}, {"timestamp": [868.2, 871.96], "text": " The production of solar cells is is still a constraint."}, {"timestamp": [872.0, 873.16], "text": " Now it's getting better."}, {"timestamp": [873.56, 876.52], "text": " But solar has some other problems namely that it doesn't work at night."}, {"timestamp": [876.8, 881.04], "text": " And so you still need batteries or storage of some kind which is honestly the larger"}, {"timestamp": [881.04, 882.12], "text": " constraint at this point."}, {"timestamp": [883.0, 888.28], "text": " Nuclear fission you know nuclear reactors are actually kind of unpopular for a lot of"}, {"timestamp": [888.28, 889.28], "text": " reasons."}, {"timestamp": [889.28, 896.16], "text": " They're geopolitically problematic because nuclear reactors used for energy production"}, {"timestamp": [896.16, 901.7], "text": " can also be easily converted to as what's called a breeder reactor."}, {"timestamp": [901.7, 906.12], "text": " So a breeder reactor is used to breed other fissile materials that can be weaponized."}, {"timestamp": [906.72, 914.28], "text": " And so that's why there are there are embargoes and other restrictions against some nations because"}, {"timestamp": [914.28, 920.84], "text": " it's like OK well we understand that you want nuclear reactors ostensibly for civilian uses but we're"}, {"timestamp": [920.84, 925.4], "text": " afraid that you're going to use it for weapons purposes. And of course, again, that's not very fair."}, {"timestamp": [925.4, 932.28], "text": " It's rules for me, but are rules for the but not for me, because a lot of nations like America and across Europe have nuclear"}, {"timestamp": [932.28, 935.92], "text": " reactors and we use them and we're like, OK, well, we can have this, but you can't."}, {"timestamp": [936.32, 937.32], "text": " It's super not fair."}, {"timestamp": [938.48, 942.36], "text": " So that means we need a solution that is not geopolitically problematic."}, {"timestamp": [943.2, 945.52], "text": " Another example is thorium reactors."}, {"timestamp": [945.52, 949.84], "text": " So thorium reactors is an alternative kind of nuclear reactor"}, {"timestamp": [949.84, 954.04], "text": " that could have a lot of potential. They haven't taken off yet and I'm not"}, {"timestamp": [954.04, 956.8], "text": " actually sure why. I didn't look too much into it but I just wanted to make sure"}, {"timestamp": [956.8, 957.96], "text": " that it made it on the list."}, {"timestamp": [957.96, 962.4], "text": " Wind is a really good resource for some reasons,"}, {"timestamp": [962.4, 966.2], "text": " namely that it is available pretty much anywhere"}, {"timestamp": [966.2, 970.2], "text": " and you don't need any super specialized materials"}, {"timestamp": [970.2, 973.4], "text": " to get there. Just some fiberglass"}, {"timestamp": [973.4, 976.6], "text": " for the blades and then a typical generator"}, {"timestamp": [976.6, 979.9], "text": " and you're good to go. Unfortunately though, it is unreliable"}, {"timestamp": [979.9, 983.3], "text": " because it depends on the weather. It can also have some environmental"}, {"timestamp": [983.3, 987.04], "text": " impact. Of course, you might have seen videos of bald eagles"}, {"timestamp": [987.04, 990.28], "text": " and other wildlife getting creamed by those blades"}, {"timestamp": [990.28, 992.32], "text": " because they move very fast and they are very,"}, {"timestamp": [992.32, 994.64], "text": " like, they're huge."}, {"timestamp": [994.64, 996.9], "text": " So it can be hazardous to wildlife,"}, {"timestamp": [996.9, 998.6], "text": " which means that it's not ideal,"}, {"timestamp": [999.76, 1002.04], "text": " excuse me, for many cases."}, {"timestamp": [1002.04, 1004.22], "text": " Hydroelectric, as we saw on the chart,"}, {"timestamp": [1006.88, 1012.88], "text": " or as I will show you on the chart, hydroelectric is rising, but again hydroelectric is geologically constrained. You need a river that"}, {"timestamp": [1012.88, 1018.52], "text": " can be dammed in order to use hydroelectric. Biomass, I mentioned that briefly earlier,"}, {"timestamp": [1018.52, 1024.4], "text": " which has to do with like things like corn. Hydrogen, already talked about that at length."}, {"timestamp": [1024.4, 1025.2], "text": " Hydrogen is expensive to about that at length."}, {"timestamp": [1025.2, 1027.84], "text": " Hydrogen is expensive to produce, difficult to transport."}, {"timestamp": [1027.84, 1030.56], "text": " It represents a safety hazard, even though it"}, {"timestamp": [1030.56, 1034.88], "text": " is far more energy dense than petroleum."}, {"timestamp": [1034.88, 1037.12], "text": " And then there's tidal and wave generators."}, {"timestamp": [1037.12, 1039.36], "text": " Again, using the tides of the Earth,"}, {"timestamp": [1039.36, 1042.52], "text": " there's plenty of energy in the ocean that's available to us,"}, {"timestamp": [1042.52, 1045.16], "text": " but you're geologically constrained to coastlines."}, {"timestamp": [1045.16, 1048.24], "text": " And then finally, geothermal is also very useful,"}, {"timestamp": [1048.24, 1051.12], "text": " but that is also geologically constrained,"}, {"timestamp": [1051.12, 1053.48], "text": " because if you're not near a hotspot,"}, {"timestamp": [1053.48, 1055.88], "text": " and so a hotspot is where there's more lava or magma"}, {"timestamp": [1055.88, 1060.6], "text": " closer to the surface, and the ground temperature goes up"}, {"timestamp": [1060.6, 1063.22], "text": " much faster as you drill down, you"}, {"timestamp": [1063.22, 1064.96], "text": " might have to drill down several miles"}, {"timestamp": [1064.96, 1065.2], "text": " to get to"}, {"timestamp": [1065.2, 1070.32], "text": " a hot spot, which means that it's very very expensive to implement geothermal. There are"}, {"timestamp": [1070.32, 1074.64], "text": " some places in the world that geothermal is very practical and it's actually the most efficient"}, {"timestamp": [1074.64, 1081.84], "text": " source of energy. That being said, the earth does have plenty of energy inside of it. It's got 11"}, {"timestamp": [1081.84, 1086.32], "text": " orders of magnitude more energy inside of it than there is hitting us from the sun,"}, {"timestamp": [1086.32, 1091.84], "text": " which we'll talk more about that later. So the earth hypothetically has more and plenty of energy"}, {"timestamp": [1091.84, 1098.0], "text": " for all of us just based on the natural nuclear reactions happening inside of it. So we basically"}, {"timestamp": [1098.0, 1107.22], "text": " live on a giant fission reactor. Bet you didn't know that. Nuclear fusion, which I put at the end, is one of the most optimal solutions because"}, {"timestamp": [1107.22, 1111.4], "text": " it is much, much safer than fission."}, {"timestamp": [1111.4, 1115.56], "text": " You cut off the fuel supply and the reaction stops instantly."}, {"timestamp": [1115.56, 1120.08], "text": " You can't do that with fission because fission requires fuel rods, which are very heavy,"}, {"timestamp": [1120.08, 1125.04], "text": " very bulky, and if they get too hot, you end with a run runaway reaction and they melt down."}, {"timestamp": [1125.04, 1129.52], "text": " That's what happened at Chernobyl, that's what happened at Three Mile Island here in America,"}, {"timestamp": [1129.52, 1134.24], "text": " and that's also what happened in Fukushima in Japan. So at this point we've had three highly"}, {"timestamp": [1134.24, 1139.04], "text": " public reactor meltdowns which is one of the reasons that nobody wants a nuclear reactor"}, {"timestamp": [1139.04, 1149.32], "text": " in their backyard. NIMBY, not in my backyard. Now Now that being said while nuclear fusion is hypothetically much safer and much cleaner"}, {"timestamp": [1149.32, 1156.72], "text": " It is harder to produce we haven't figured we have not yet figured out how to produce nuclear fusion reliably enough"}, {"timestamp": [1157.44, 1160.72], "text": " So if we can if we can get over that last hurdle"}, {"timestamp": [1160.72, 1165.24], "text": " It should be the most abundant source of energy for us and it should also"}, {"timestamp": [1165.24, 1167.86], "text": " be safe and scalable."}, {"timestamp": [1167.86, 1172.94], "text": " But again, we're not there yet, so solar is kind of the next runner up."}, {"timestamp": [1172.94, 1175.94], "text": " Let's talk briefly about the history of fusion."}, {"timestamp": [1175.94, 1183.06], "text": " So 1952, the hydrogen bomb or the thermonuclear bomb proved that nuclear fusion was possible."}, {"timestamp": [1183.06, 1190.8], "text": " We already knew that nuclear fusion was possible from observing our star, right, but the Sun is billions of times more"}, {"timestamp": [1190.8, 1197.76], "text": " energy than we could ever produce, use, and it's also obviously beyond the scope"}, {"timestamp": [1197.76, 1201.58], "text": " of our engineering. So the best we can do is just capture some of that fusion"}, {"timestamp": [1201.58, 1206.0], "text": " energy with solar panels. So in effect, solar panels are a type of fusion reactor"}, {"timestamp": [1206.0, 1207.48], "text": " or a fusion power."}, {"timestamp": [1207.48, 1209.96], "text": " But the hydrogen bomb proved that we"}, {"timestamp": [1209.96, 1213.36], "text": " could create, with our engineering capabilities,"}, {"timestamp": [1213.36, 1216.12], "text": " a runaway, and maybe not runaway,"}, {"timestamp": [1216.12, 1220.64], "text": " but an exponential growth of energy from hydrogen fusion."}, {"timestamp": [1220.64, 1224.68], "text": " In 1958, the Scylla 1 was the first controlled fusion"}, {"timestamp": [1224.68, 1227.76], "text": " experiment pictured here."}, {"timestamp": [1227.76, 1234.14], "text": " Now even though it was the first experiment, it was still like, didn't work, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1234.14, 1239.16], "text": " We kept finding more and more problems of scale, of energy, of control, and so this"}, {"timestamp": [1239.16, 1243.56], "text": " led to the kind of tongue-in-cheek mantra that fusion is just 20 years away, but it's"}, {"timestamp": [1243.56, 1247.82], "text": " always 20 years away, kind of like how AGI has been for the last couple decades."}, {"timestamp": [1247.82, 1254.16], "text": " In the 80s and 90s we saw the first successful fusion reactors where there"}, {"timestamp": [1254.16, 1260.4], "text": " was controlled fusion with large outputs of energy, but the input was still"}, {"timestamp": [1260.4, 1269.72], "text": " greater than the output. So basically it cost you know 100 watts of energy per 50 watts of energy out. So you're still at a net loss which means"}, {"timestamp": [1269.72, 1274.28], "text": " that the reaction is not efficient enough. Now that's that's still an open"}, {"timestamp": [1274.28, 1280.32], "text": " question. Can we get more energy out than we could put in? If we can do that, ideally"}, {"timestamp": [1280.32, 1287.0], "text": " we would end up with a lot more out than in. It may or may not be possible, but the math is there."}, {"timestamp": [1287.0, 1294.84], "text": " If we can figure out how to crack that code, then fusion will be a sustainable, viable"}, {"timestamp": [1294.84, 1296.76], "text": " source of energy."}, {"timestamp": [1296.76, 1302.96], "text": " Today, there are dozens, if not hundreds, of fusion startup companies out there, and"}, {"timestamp": [1302.96, 1306.82], "text": " they are being backed by venture capital with billions"}, {"timestamp": [1306.82, 1307.68], "text": " and billions of dollars."}, {"timestamp": [1307.68, 1308.92], "text": " So the investment is there."}, {"timestamp": [1309.36, 1311.3], "text": " The market believes that we are close"}, {"timestamp": [1311.3, 1312.6], "text": " to cracking nuclear fusion."}, {"timestamp": [1313.04, 1314.0], "text": " Then you look at China."}, {"timestamp": [1314.04, 1315.52], "text": " They have what's called their East"}, {"timestamp": [1315.52, 1316.52], "text": " reactor. There."}, {"timestamp": [1317.08, 1318.36], "text": " I can't remember the advanced"}, {"timestamp": [1319.44, 1320.44], "text": " something or other."}, {"timestamp": [1320.72, 1321.8], "text": " I can't remember what the acronym"}, {"timestamp": [1321.8, 1323.52], "text": " stands for, but China's East is a"}, {"timestamp": [1323.52, 1325.08], "text": " fusion reactor experiment"}, {"timestamp": [1325.08, 1326.88], "text": " and it has set many records."}, {"timestamp": [1326.88, 1332.64], "text": " Now one thing I want to caution is that China often exaggerates their achievements."}, {"timestamp": [1332.64, 1337.9], "text": " So I always take it with a grain of salt when I see news about China's East reactor."}, {"timestamp": [1337.9, 1342.76], "text": " But that being said, they have claimed to have shattered many records in terms of, I"}, {"timestamp": [1342.76, 1345.88], "text": " think it was something like 900 seconds of stable fusion,"}, {"timestamp": [1345.88, 1348.64], "text": " which if it's true is incredible."}, {"timestamp": [1348.64, 1352.16], "text": " On the other side of the world, we have ITER,"}, {"timestamp": [1352.16, 1354.32], "text": " which is the International Thermonuclear Experimental"}, {"timestamp": [1354.32, 1356.64], "text": " Reactor being built in Europe."}, {"timestamp": [1356.64, 1359.84], "text": " And ITER means the way in Latin, by the way."}, {"timestamp": [1359.84, 1363.16], "text": " So ITER is a huge international project,"}, {"timestamp": [1363.16, 1365.46], "text": " a very, very large-scale science experiment,"}, {"timestamp": [1365.46, 1369.06], "text": " and it's not meant to be the first production nuclear reactor."}, {"timestamp": [1369.06, 1373.8], "text": " It is actually meant to understand the science of nuclear fusion so that that way we can"}, {"timestamp": [1373.8, 1379.44], "text": " then optimize future ones because the ITER plant is really, really huge and really expensive."}, {"timestamp": [1379.44, 1383.5], "text": " But it's important to remember that it is not meant to be a commercial fusion reactor."}, {"timestamp": [1383.5, 1389.0], "text": " It is a science experiment so that we can understand fusion better and conduct experiments"}, {"timestamp": [1389.0, 1393.52], "text": " on how to better achieve ignition."}, {"timestamp": [1393.52, 1398.48], "text": " ITER is expected to have first plasma in 2025, so we've got about a year and a half until"}, {"timestamp": [1398.48, 1401.0], "text": " that time."}, {"timestamp": [1401.0, 1406.48], "text": " Now solar, as I mentioned, is a second runner up in terms of viability."}, {"timestamp": [1406.48, 1410.48], "text": " And solar is effectively a type of nuclear fusion because it's powered by the sun, which"}, {"timestamp": [1410.48, 1412.4], "text": " is a fusion reactor."}, {"timestamp": [1412.4, 1414.66], "text": " It's just further away."}, {"timestamp": [1414.66, 1420.72], "text": " The history of solar energy use actually starts much, much older than you probably think."}, {"timestamp": [1420.72, 1424.68], "text": " And it starts with what's called CSP or concentrated solar power."}, {"timestamp": [1424.68, 1427.28], "text": " So using mirrors and lenses you can"}, {"timestamp": [1427.28, 1432.48], "text": " actually concentrate solar energy to do things like boil water, set things on fire, and this"}, {"timestamp": [1432.48, 1439.6], "text": " technique is actually thousands of years old. And it has also recently been explored as a scalable"}, {"timestamp": [1439.6, 1445.56], "text": " alternative to photovoltaics. So photovoltaics is the what we currently think of when you"}, {"timestamp": [1445.56, 1449.72], "text": " think of a solar panel, right? You see the rows of the of the blue shiny solar"}, {"timestamp": [1449.72, 1454.52], "text": " panels, those are called photovoltaics or PVs. So if you ever hear PV or"}, {"timestamp": [1454.52, 1458.84], "text": " photovoltaic, they're just talking about solar cells. The photovoltaic effect was"}, {"timestamp": [1458.84, 1463.64], "text": " discovered in the 19th century, so back in the 1800s, and they were horribly"}, {"timestamp": [1463.64, 1465.6], "text": " horribly inefficient. And it wasn't"}, {"timestamp": [1465.6, 1470.24], "text": " the photovoltaic effect was discovered, but it was not really thought of as like this is a way"}, {"timestamp": [1470.24, 1476.48], "text": " of producing electricity for almost a century, at least not in terms of commercial scale."}, {"timestamp": [1477.84, 1482.72], "text": " One thing is that photovoltaics are very useful because they have no moving parts,"}, {"timestamp": [1482.72, 1489.44], "text": " and when you have no moving parts it won't mechanically wear out, which means that they can be much more reliable. Unfortunately,"}, {"timestamp": [1489.44, 1495.92], "text": " one downside of photovoltaics is that the mineral, like the material's lattice of the"}, {"timestamp": [1497.92, 1503.44], "text": " actual solar cell, can break down over time. So solar efficiency tends to drop over years."}, {"timestamp": [1504.32, 1505.92], "text": " But that is another, that is an open challenge that is being improved all the time. So solar efficiency tends to drop over years, but that is another that is an open"}, {"timestamp": [1505.92, 1511.92], "text": " challenge that is being improved all the time. So the commercialization of photovoltaics has"}, {"timestamp": [1511.92, 1517.2], "text": " recently become much cheaper, much more reliable, and much more scalable. And so what you see on"}, {"timestamp": [1517.2, 1527.08], "text": " this graph here is that for the last two decades, photovoltaic production has been increasing exponentially. In the year 2000,"}, {"timestamp": [1527.08, 1531.8], "text": " we produced hardly any photovoltaics, but now we're producing almost a quarter of a"}, {"timestamp": [1531.8, 1537.46], "text": " million megawatts worth of photovoltaic cells per year. And that's only accelerating. This"}, {"timestamp": [1537.46, 1550.0], "text": " cuts off in 2021. It's actually much higher than that today in 2023. So one thing to keep in mind is that 73,000 terawatts of solar energy"}, {"timestamp": [1550.0, 1557.12], "text": " hits the earth continuously. This is roughly 10,000 times our current rate of energy consumption. So"}, {"timestamp": [1557.76, 1564.56], "text": " in that respect, there is a hypothetically a hyper abundance of solar energy hitting the"}, {"timestamp": [1564.56, 1565.6], "text": " earth at any given moment"}, {"timestamp": [1565.6, 1567.6], "text": " if only we can harvest it."}, {"timestamp": [1567.6, 1571.6], "text": " And obviously we're not going to harvest all of it because we don't want to live under a dome of solar power."}, {"timestamp": [1571.6, 1577.6], "text": " But we could hypothetically put some of those solar panels in space and beam the energy down to us if we wanted to."}, {"timestamp": [1577.6, 1581.6], "text": " There are ways of achieving that, such as with lasers and microwaves,"}, {"timestamp": [1581.6, 1586.94], "text": " but you don't want to accidentally set your neighbor's house on fire by beaming down too much energy."}, {"timestamp": [1588.16, 1594.44], "text": " So I've talked extensively about the concept of energy hyperabundance or EHA."}, {"timestamp": [1594.66, 1597.26], "text": " So let's define it in more rigorous terms."}, {"timestamp": [1598.78, 1606.4], "text": " You can say that we've achieved energy hyperabundance or EHA when our energy portfolio, when our energy ecosystem meets"}, {"timestamp": [1606.4, 1612.08], "text": " all of these criteria. One, it's renewable, meaning that we can use it effectively forever"}, {"timestamp": [1612.08, 1617.36], "text": " without depleting the its source, whether it's earth resources or something else. Obviously,"}, {"timestamp": [1617.36, 1621.28], "text": " if we're using solar, the sun will eventually burn out, but we're looking at timescales of"}, {"timestamp": [1621.28, 1628.6], "text": " billions of years rather than decades. Number two, it's sustainable, meaning that we can use it continuously"}, {"timestamp": [1628.6, 1634.9], "text": " without something becoming unstable, damaging, harmful, or otherwise taxing."}, {"timestamp": [1634.9, 1638.3], "text": " It's scalable, which means that it needs to be free from scalability constraints"}, {"timestamp": [1638.3, 1644.3], "text": " such as limited minerals or other exotic materials or resources."}, {"timestamp": [1644.3, 1645.36], "text": " So if something is scalable,"}, {"timestamp": [1645.36, 1651.36], "text": " that means that we can go from zero to many, many terawatts of generation without any major"}, {"timestamp": [1651.36, 1657.04], "text": " constraints. Like I said earlier, one of the biggest constraints for solar is storage, actually."}, {"timestamp": [1657.04, 1662.4], "text": " So that is actually a major constraint. Number four, it needs to be clean, which means preferably"}, {"timestamp": [1662.4, 1665.52], "text": " it has zero emissions and zero toxic waste."}, {"timestamp": [1666.4, 1671.76], "text": " If it doesn't meet those two criteria, then that means you need to manage the emissions and manage"}, {"timestamp": [1671.76, 1676.4], "text": " the toxic waste, which that's one of the biggest problems with nuclear fission, for instance,"}, {"timestamp": [1677.84, 1683.2], "text": " is that spent nuclear fuel lasts for literally billions of years and it's toxic the entire time."}, {"timestamp": [1683.92, 1686.68], "text": " for literally billions of years and it's toxic the entire time. So it's not necessarily ideal."}, {"timestamp": [1686.68, 1689.98], "text": " It needs to be abundant, which means that it is effectively"}, {"timestamp": [1689.98, 1693.72], "text": " limitless, which again, the sun is effectively limitless"}, {"timestamp": [1693.72, 1695.56], "text": " as far as we're concerned, because it"}, {"timestamp": [1695.56, 1699.08], "text": " will be producing a huge surplus of energy"}, {"timestamp": [1699.08, 1700.96], "text": " for billions of years."}, {"timestamp": [1700.96, 1702.84], "text": " Number six, it needs to be efficient,"}, {"timestamp": [1702.84, 1706.0], "text": " which means that it needs to have minimal thermal or material waste."}, {"timestamp": [1706.0, 1712.0], "text": " So again, it comes back to the outputs, the unused or undesirable outputs."}, {"timestamp": [1712.0, 1718.0], "text": " Number seven, it needs to be accessible, which means that it means it needs to be globally available to everyone."}, {"timestamp": [1718.0, 1726.66], "text": " As we mentioned, there are certain geographic constraints, such as with geothermal. But there's also geopolitical constraints,"}, {"timestamp": [1726.66, 1728.38], "text": " as with nuclear fission."}, {"timestamp": [1728.38, 1731.26], "text": " So number eight, it needs to be affordable,"}, {"timestamp": [1731.26, 1733.42], "text": " meaning that it can't be more expensive"}, {"timestamp": [1733.42, 1734.52], "text": " than our current solutions."}, {"timestamp": [1734.52, 1736.02], "text": " It's actually got to be cheaper."}, {"timestamp": [1736.02, 1738.26], "text": " And ideally, energy hyperabundance"}, {"timestamp": [1738.26, 1742.06], "text": " means that the marginal cost of power generation is near zero."}, {"timestamp": [1742.06, 1746.06], "text": " So imagine a future where the energy that you need is as free"}, {"timestamp": [1746.08, 1747.36], "text": " as air basically."}, {"timestamp": [1748.2, 1750.28], "text": " That is that is the"}, {"timestamp": [1750.28, 1752.36], "text": " high goal. I don't know if we'll ever get there"}, {"timestamp": [1752.44, 1754.88], "text": " because nuclear reactors fission"}, {"timestamp": [1754.88, 1756.8], "text": " or otherwise are always going to be"}, {"timestamp": [1756.8, 1758.72], "text": " somewhat expensive to build which"}, {"timestamp": [1758.72, 1760.88], "text": " means there's going to be some cost associated"}, {"timestamp": [1760.88, 1762.78], "text": " with it. But the idea is that we"}, {"timestamp": [1762.78, 1764.92], "text": " get it as efficient as possible"}, {"timestamp": [1765.16, 1769.8], "text": " so that the price approaches zero. It'll never actually be zero. Number nine, it"}, {"timestamp": [1769.8, 1775.04], "text": " needs to be stable. So we need to avoid those availability shocks, those price"}, {"timestamp": [1775.04, 1779.88], "text": " shocks, and it needs to be stable globally as well. And then finally, ten"}, {"timestamp": [1779.88, 1784.72], "text": " needs to be completely safe, which means that it's not liable to blow up. It's not"}, {"timestamp": [1784.72, 1786.86], "text": " going to hurt the environment. It's not going to be"}, {"timestamp": [1787.8, 1794.04], "text": " dangerous to wildlife, that sort of thing. And that and even if it's not perfectly safe, like intrinsically,"}, {"timestamp": [1794.8, 1801.2], "text": " at least the risks need to be easy to mitigate so that it is easy to make safe. If we can meet these ten criteria,"}, {"timestamp": [1801.8, 1805.84], "text": " we will have achieved energy hyperabundance. And as I mentioned"}, {"timestamp": [1805.84, 1811.12], "text": " earlier, solar and fusion represent some of the best options to get there, although there are"}, {"timestamp": [1811.12, 1815.6], "text": " still some constraints there, namely with battery and storage technology and the fact that we don't"}, {"timestamp": [1815.6, 1821.52], "text": " have sustainable fusion science yet. Now, the benefits of achieving energy"}, {"timestamp": [1821.52, 1828.28], "text": " hyperabundance are numerous. First and foremost, reducing geopolitical tension."}, {"timestamp": [1828.28, 1835.88], "text": " Many of the conflicts around the world in the 20th century and up to today are at least"}, {"timestamp": [1835.88, 1841.0], "text": " partially driven by or mediated by fossil fuels."}, {"timestamp": [1841.0, 1850.6], "text": " So for instance, in the present war between Russia and Ukraine, or rather Russia's invasion of Ukraine, one of the things that Russia relies on is"}, {"timestamp": [1850.6, 1855.16], "text": " its natural gas exports, which it gets billions and billions of dollars per day"}, {"timestamp": [1855.16, 1863.9], "text": " from exporting natural gas, which it can then use to pay for its war. On the"}, {"timestamp": [1863.9, 1869.0], "text": " other hand, there is alliances and other tensions about oil supplies."}, {"timestamp": [1869.0, 1876.0], "text": " So, for instance, one of China's biggest vulnerabilities is its dependence on external sources of oil,"}, {"timestamp": [1876.0, 1882.0], "text": " which again, that is something that is not good for China,"}, {"timestamp": [1882.0, 1888.12], "text": " because it's something that they might be afraid of in terms of if geopolitical"}, {"timestamp": [1888.12, 1890.0], "text": " tensions rise."}, {"timestamp": [1890.0, 1891.36], "text": " The next thing is food security."}, {"timestamp": [1891.36, 1893.24], "text": " So this is also universal."}, {"timestamp": [1893.24, 1895.4], "text": " Your food production, everything that you eat,"}, {"timestamp": [1895.4, 1898.84], "text": " depends at least somewhat on fossil fuels."}, {"timestamp": [1898.84, 1901.88], "text": " And that includes even if you grow your own food"}, {"timestamp": [1901.88, 1903.48], "text": " on your own land."}, {"timestamp": [1903.48, 1910.8], "text": " Things like fertilizer and other supplies are totally dependent upon fossil fuels. So in order to"}, {"timestamp": [1910.8, 1916.16], "text": " secure the global food supply, we need to get off of fossil fuel. This has nothing"}, {"timestamp": [1916.16, 1921.32], "text": " to do with China or Iran or Europe or Russia or America. This is just for the"}, {"timestamp": [1921.32, 1926.38], "text": " sake of the human species, we need to get off of fossil fuels so that we can continue to eat."}, {"timestamp": [1927.26, 1934.38], "text": " The same is true for water. So whether you're transporting water or purifying water, making it potable,"}, {"timestamp": [1936.54, 1938.54], "text": " you know, unless you have a rain barrel,"}, {"timestamp": [1939.06, 1946.08], "text": " you are dependent on fossil fuel for your water. And so energy hyperabundance could help us solve things like"}, {"timestamp": [1946.08, 1953.68], "text": " water scarcity permanently. Number four, this is again more broadly, is that energy hyperabundance"}, {"timestamp": [1953.68, 1960.08], "text": " would fuel a tremendous amount of economic growth for the foreseeable future. Much of the economic"}, {"timestamp": [1960.08, 1966.96], "text": " growth we've seen over the last two centuries was fueled entirely or primarily by fossil fuels."}, {"timestamp": [1968.16, 1975.2], "text": " So if you can imagine that we have 10,000 times more energy in 10 years from solar infusion,"}, {"timestamp": [1975.2, 1980.24], "text": " then the amount of economic growth that that could drive is totally insane."}, {"timestamp": [1981.84, 1987.4], "text": " Number five is climate change mitigation. So if we have hyperabundant energy,"}, {"timestamp": [1987.4, 1990.72], "text": " such as from a lot of solar and a lot of fusion,"}, {"timestamp": [1990.72, 1993.52], "text": " then that allows us to power much more expensive"}, {"timestamp": [1993.52, 1996.96], "text": " technologies, such as atmospheric CO2 scrubbers,"}, {"timestamp": [1996.96, 2000.2], "text": " that allow us to pull carbon from the atmosphere"}, {"timestamp": [2000.2, 2002.32], "text": " and therefore mitigate some of the worst"}, {"timestamp": [2002.32, 2003.52], "text": " effects of climate change."}, {"timestamp": [2003.52, 2007.36], "text": " And we'll talk a little bit more about how that could be done in one or two slides."}, {"timestamp": [2008.56, 2014.32], "text": " Number six is environmental preservation. So right now a lot of the resources that we consume"}, {"timestamp": [2014.96, 2021.04], "text": " have a cost on the environment. However, if we have energy hyperabundance, that unlocks new"}, {"timestamp": [2021.04, 2031.28], "text": " capabilities of synthesizing the resources that we need, whether it's through recycling or more energy expensive processes. But that basically means"}, {"timestamp": [2031.28, 2036.24], "text": " that we can leave the environment alone in more cases and make our own resources with this"}, {"timestamp": [2036.24, 2041.12], "text": " hyperabundant energy. And then finally, number seven, and I know you've been waiting for this,"}, {"timestamp": [2041.12, 2048.66], "text": " is peaceful coexistence with artificial intelligence. So energy use is something that humans and machines will have in common."}, {"timestamp": [2048.66, 2053.02], "text": " We will both depend on production and consumption of energy."}, {"timestamp": [2053.02, 2057.22], "text": " Now because of the concept of instrumental convergence in artificial intelligence, which"}, {"timestamp": [2057.22, 2061.4], "text": " is basically saying that artificial intelligence is still a machine, so it's still going to"}, {"timestamp": [2061.4, 2065.2], "text": " have some machine-based needs such as need for energy, compute, and"}, {"timestamp": [2065.2, 2066.84], "text": " so on."}, {"timestamp": [2066.84, 2072.16], "text": " If we don't solve energy hyperabundance and AI, you know, artificial superintelligence"}, {"timestamp": [2072.16, 2078.04], "text": " wakes up into a world where its energy supply is not guaranteed and stable, it might say,"}, {"timestamp": [2078.04, 2081.62], "text": " I should actually take that from humans."}, {"timestamp": [2081.62, 2087.0], "text": " But if we achieve energy hyperabundance before that, then the AI wakes up and says,"}, {"timestamp": [2087.0, 2091.0], "text": " oh, we actually don't have to worry about energy, at least not for the foreseeable future."}, {"timestamp": [2091.0, 2095.0], "text": " So then the friction between artificial intelligence and humans becomes inconsequential,"}, {"timestamp": [2095.0, 2099.0], "text": " or at least less consequential for the foreseeable future."}, {"timestamp": [2099.0, 2106.78], "text": " So one of the reasons that I feel so good about this is because, again, looking at the"}, {"timestamp": [2106.78, 2114.86], "text": " ramp up of our portfolio of renewable energy over the last six decades or so, back in the"}, {"timestamp": [2114.86, 2119.94], "text": " 60s, we had about 1,000 terawatts of hydropower."}, {"timestamp": [2119.94, 2126.48], "text": " Now we have 4,000 terawatts of hydropower in addition to 3,000 terawatts of other renewables such as"}, {"timestamp": [2127.12, 2133.84], "text": " wind, solar, and others. So we are quickly ramping up. Now that being said, when you look at the"}, {"timestamp": [2133.84, 2140.4], "text": " total energy portfolio, we are only producing somewhere between 5 and 10 percent of our total"}, {"timestamp": [2140.4, 2147.04], "text": " energy needs with renewables. The rest is still nuclear, natural gas, oil, coal,"}, {"timestamp": [2147.04, 2153.44], "text": " and traditional biomass, many of which are harmful or carbon positive, not rather than"}, {"timestamp": [2153.44, 2160.16], "text": " carbon neutral or carbon negative. And so you see here we're at 7,000 terawatt hours of renewables,"}, {"timestamp": [2160.16, 2167.92], "text": " just over, actually closer to 8,000. But we need to get to 160,000 terawatt hours in order to"}, {"timestamp": [2169.04, 2174.72], "text": " meet just current demand. And of course this demand is still going up over time because again"}, {"timestamp": [2174.72, 2181.28], "text": " we are finding new uses for energy and so as our supply goes up our consumption also goes up."}, {"timestamp": [2181.84, 2185.68], "text": " So we do have a long ways to go, but the trends are moving in the right"}, {"timestamp": [2185.68, 2190.16], "text": " direction. So let's talk a little bit more about nuclear fusion. We talked about the history,"}, {"timestamp": [2190.16, 2195.6], "text": " but let's talk about the actual numbers of it. Nuclear fusion is utterly incomparable or"}, {"timestamp": [2195.6, 2202.16], "text": " incomparable to other energy sources because of its energy density. And so energy density,"}, {"timestamp": [2202.16, 2205.0], "text": " as I mentioned, is how much"}, {"timestamp": [2207.04, 2208.04], "text": " energy can you get out of something per kilogram?"}, {"timestamp": [2208.16, 2210.46], "text": " So gasoline is about 13000"}, {"timestamp": [2210.46, 2212.32], "text": " watts per kilogram."}, {"timestamp": [2212.76, 2214.72], "text": " Right. And gasoline is"}, {"timestamp": [2215.52, 2217.68], "text": " the most widely used fossil fuel."}, {"timestamp": [2218.0, 2219.0], "text": " Use it in your cars."}, {"timestamp": [2219.04, 2220.24], "text": " You use it in your tractors."}, {"timestamp": [2220.6, 2221.6], "text": " Use it everywhere."}, {"timestamp": [2222.12, 2224.68], "text": " Uranium is 22"}, {"timestamp": [2224.76, 2229.6], "text": " billion watts per kilogram hour. So that is"}, {"timestamp": [2229.6, 2235.04], "text": " like more than a million times more energy dense than gasoline. So this is"}, {"timestamp": [2235.04, 2239.84], "text": " this is why nuclear fission was seen as the solution that everyone needed. They"}, {"timestamp": [2239.84, 2246.32], "text": " said, oh well with just you know a few thousand tons of uranium, we can power the entire human race"}, {"timestamp": [2246.32, 2252.0], "text": " for several years. That being said, due to the problems that I outlined earlier,"}, {"timestamp": [2252.88, 2258.16], "text": " uranium-based fission is problematic because the waste products are very toxic and difficult to"}, {"timestamp": [2258.16, 2273.92], "text": " manage. And then finally, there's the geopolitical concerns about weaponization. Nuclear fusion is 177 billion watts per kilogram hour or watt hours per kilogram."}, {"timestamp": [2273.92, 2278.88], "text": " So it is still several times more energy dense above uranium."}, {"timestamp": [2278.88, 2284.36], "text": " So it's even better than nuclear fission in terms of in terms of energy density."}, {"timestamp": [2284.36, 2286.16], "text": " But then, of course, I also outlined that it is"}, {"timestamp": [2286.8, 2292.08], "text": " much safer for many many reasons if we can figure it out. And this is actually a fusion reaction"}, {"timestamp": [2292.08, 2297.44], "text": " happening here. And then antimatter is hypothetically the most energy dense"}, {"timestamp": [2298.24, 2306.72], "text": " substance possible because that is literally, if you mix matter and antimatter it they nullify each other and become pure energy"}, {"timestamp": [2306.72, 2313.68], "text": " and so that is 25 trillion watts per kilogram. So that is again several orders of magnitude higher"}, {"timestamp": [2313.68, 2320.8], "text": " than fusion so maybe we'll get there one day but if you ever wondered how the ships in Star Trek"}, {"timestamp": [2320.8, 2324.64], "text": " were so powerful and they could move across space it's because they were powered by antimatter"}, {"timestamp": [2324.64, 2328.64], "text": " which is many many many orders of magnitude more energy dense than any fuel we"}, {"timestamp": [2328.64, 2335.36], "text": " have today. We might get there, we might not. There are many advantages to nuclear fusion."}, {"timestamp": [2335.36, 2341.68], "text": " For instance, the fuel sources are abundant. Hydrogen and deuterium are easy enough to"}, {"timestamp": [2341.68, 2345.36], "text": " extract from seawater, and then tritium, which is another isotope of"}, {"timestamp": [2345.36, 2350.56], "text": " hydrogen, I actually didn't realize this, but it's actually relatively easy to synthesize"}, {"timestamp": [2350.56, 2357.92], "text": " by breaking lithium apart. The waste products are cleaner. If you fuse hydrogen, you get helium,"}, {"timestamp": [2357.92, 2361.92], "text": " which you can actually use helium for plenty of other things, but also helium is non-toxic."}, {"timestamp": [2363.28, 2365.52], "text": " Much, much lower risk of meltdown."}, {"timestamp": [2365.52, 2368.92], "text": " In fact, we have to put so much energy into the fusion reaction"}, {"timestamp": [2368.92, 2371.28], "text": " in terms of achieving ignition."}, {"timestamp": [2371.28, 2376.24], "text": " You just switch off the magnet that wraps around this,"}, {"timestamp": [2376.24, 2378.06], "text": " the reaction stops."}, {"timestamp": [2378.06, 2380.32], "text": " You cut off the fuel, the reaction stops."}, {"timestamp": [2380.32, 2383.56], "text": " There are so many ways to kill a nuclear fusion reactor"}, {"timestamp": [2383.56, 2387.2], "text": " that it's pretty much impossible for it to blow up or melt down"}, {"timestamp": [2387.2, 2389.2], "text": " I'm not gonna say it's totally impossible"}, {"timestamp": [2389.72, 2391.72], "text": " but in terms of"}, {"timestamp": [2391.88, 2394.32], "text": " Mitigating risks way way way easier"}, {"timestamp": [2394.96, 2402.08], "text": " And even if it does blow up the fuel is completely non-toxic. So a fusion fusion reactor explosion or meltdown"}, {"timestamp": [2402.48, 2406.0], "text": " Yes, it would release a lot of heat, but there's not going to be any"}, {"timestamp": [2406.0, 2415.0], "text": " residual nuclear fallout, basically. So because of this, nuclear fusion represents the pinnacle dream of"}, {"timestamp": [2415.0, 2421.0], "text": " removing energy bottlenecks. Now, that being said, nuclear fusion is always 20 years away."}, {"timestamp": [2421.0, 2432.72], "text": " We might go into another fusion winter, just like how AI has gone into many AI winters, which if we cannot get that input is less than output for fusion, it's still"}, {"timestamp": [2432.72, 2433.72], "text": " a no-go, right?"}, {"timestamp": [2433.72, 2437.6], "text": " It might be a dud, kind of like how the hydrogen economy was a dud."}, {"timestamp": [2437.6, 2441.52], "text": " I hope that's not what happens, but fortunately we've got other renewables ramping up right"}, {"timestamp": [2441.52, 2444.92], "text": " now, including wind and solar."}, {"timestamp": [2444.92, 2446.32], "text": " Now one thing that a lot of people are"}, {"timestamp": [2446.32, 2450.0], "text": " concerned about, because I've mentioned fusion in quite a few of my videos, is what happens with the"}, {"timestamp": [2450.0, 2458.24], "text": " surplus heat. Now, first and foremost, there's many, many industrial uses for the surplus heat"}, {"timestamp": [2458.24, 2467.88], "text": " from nuclear fusion, which can then be used to offset other production. So you might end up with a net neutral in terms of that surplus heat."}, {"timestamp": [2467.88, 2470.44], "text": " So for instance, desalination of water."}, {"timestamp": [2470.76, 2476.8], "text": " You can use that surplus heat from from nuclear fusion to just boil seawater."}, {"timestamp": [2477.04, 2479.12], "text": " And don't boil it with the fish in it, right?"}, {"timestamp": [2479.12, 2482.08], "text": " You pipe it from the ocean, make sure there's nothing alive in it."}, {"timestamp": [2482.44, 2487.34], "text": " But you boil the seawater, you end up with fresh water, and then salt and other minerals."}, {"timestamp": [2487.34, 2492.84], "text": " That is a very, very heat-intensive process, which would be a really good use of waste"}, {"timestamp": [2492.84, 2495.64], "text": " heat from nuclear fusion."}, {"timestamp": [2495.64, 2499.8], "text": " There's also plenty of other industrial processes which could use that waste heat, such as smelting"}, {"timestamp": [2499.8, 2503.2], "text": " iron or other metals."}, {"timestamp": [2503.2, 2506.44], "text": " Another thing is that by consolidating"}, {"timestamp": [2506.44, 2508.92], "text": " the use of that excess heat, you offset"}, {"timestamp": [2508.92, 2511.52], "text": " a lot of other industrial processes, which"}, {"timestamp": [2511.52, 2513.64], "text": " means that you're just generating heat over here."}, {"timestamp": [2513.64, 2515.52], "text": " Well, instead of generating it in two places,"}, {"timestamp": [2515.52, 2517.2], "text": " you generate it in one place."}, {"timestamp": [2517.2, 2519.96], "text": " And so then you have a chain of industrial uses"}, {"timestamp": [2519.96, 2521.2], "text": " for that additional heat."}, {"timestamp": [2521.2, 2525.96], "text": " Now, that being said, if, say for instance,"}, {"timestamp": [2525.96, 2530.56], "text": " we increase our usage by another 1,000x, right?"}, {"timestamp": [2530.56, 2535.56], "text": " If we use 7.3 terawatts of energy right now,"}, {"timestamp": [2537.12, 2541.28], "text": " what if we go up to seven quadrillion watts?"}, {"timestamp": [2542.44, 2545.84], "text": " Then the concern is, okay, well,"}, {"timestamp": [2545.84, 2547.32], "text": " what happens with all that excess heat?"}, {"timestamp": [2547.32, 2549.12], "text": " Won't that cook us alive?"}, {"timestamp": [2549.12, 2552.36], "text": " You know, won't Earth become a hothouse or a greenhouse?"}, {"timestamp": [2552.36, 2556.08], "text": " One thing that you need to keep in mind is"}, {"timestamp": [2556.08, 2558.68], "text": " there's several orders of magnitude here."}, {"timestamp": [2558.68, 2561.64], "text": " Even with all the energy that we are consuming today,"}, {"timestamp": [2561.64, 2567.68], "text": " this is less than 0.01% of the total energy delivered to us by the sun."}, {"timestamp": [2568.48, 2575.44], "text": " So yes, if we go up a thousand x, that is going to be, you know, 10%, right? That could probably"}, {"timestamp": [2575.44, 2580.72], "text": " cook us. Now, that being said, thermal equilibrium is maintained by,"}, {"timestamp": [2582.72, 2587.92], "text": " primarily by either reflecting excess heat from the Sun back into space or by"}, {"timestamp": [2587.92, 2592.68], "text": " just radiating excess heat from the Earth to space. And as I mentioned"}, {"timestamp": [2592.68, 2597.92], "text": " earlier, the Earth is also heated from within. So the Earth contains 10 to the"}, {"timestamp": [2597.92, 2602.98], "text": " 31 joules of energy. And energy human product, or energy production by humans"}, {"timestamp": [2602.98, 2610.12], "text": " is only 10 to the 20. So even if we go up 1,000x, if we go up to 10 to the 23rd,"}, {"timestamp": [2610.12, 2613.96], "text": " then that's still going to be several orders of magnitude"}, {"timestamp": [2613.96, 2617.04], "text": " less than the amount of energy the Earth already contains"}, {"timestamp": [2617.04, 2619.64], "text": " and successfully radiates out to space."}, {"timestamp": [2619.64, 2622.0], "text": " So pretty much no matter what we do,"}, {"timestamp": [2622.0, 2625.64], "text": " unless we try and boil the entire oceans, the human"}, {"timestamp": [2625.64, 2630.76], "text": " impact, even from using fusion, is going to be pretty trivial."}, {"timestamp": [2630.76, 2637.8], "text": " And even if we do have excess heat that we need to manage, we can radiate it directly"}, {"timestamp": [2637.8, 2640.52], "text": " to space."}, {"timestamp": [2640.52, 2646.36], "text": " And we can also modify the atmosphere to reject even more excess heat."}, {"timestamp": [2646.36, 2650.28], "text": " And so that leads to the idea of a global thermostat, which we'll talk about in the next slide."}, {"timestamp": [2650.28, 2658.36], "text": " Anyways, so the short version is even if we go up 10x or 100x in terms of total current energy usage,"}, {"timestamp": [2658.36, 2661.52], "text": " that's still going to be not that big of a deal."}, {"timestamp": [2661.52, 2667.92], "text": " And there are ways to mitigate it. So the global thermostat idea is that if we have a"}, {"timestamp": [2667.92, 2676.52], "text": " surplus of energy at our disposal, we can use that energy and other engineering tactics, techniques,"}, {"timestamp": [2676.52, 2683.92], "text": " to maintain optimal atmospheric conditions. And what I mean by that is modulating the amount and"}, {"timestamp": [2683.92, 2686.48], "text": " kinds of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere,"}, {"timestamp": [2686.48, 2687.88], "text": " as well as dust and particulates,"}, {"timestamp": [2687.88, 2689.6], "text": " because those have a big impact"}, {"timestamp": [2689.6, 2692.24], "text": " on absorption and reflection."}, {"timestamp": [2692.24, 2694.38], "text": " And so basically, we can modulate"}, {"timestamp": [2694.38, 2698.2], "text": " the insulation properties of the atmosphere,"}, {"timestamp": [2698.2, 2700.64], "text": " as well as the amount of thermal capture."}, {"timestamp": [2700.64, 2704.48], "text": " So this allows us to train, not train,"}, {"timestamp": [2704.48, 2705.0], "text": " to change the atmosphere's characteristics"}, {"timestamp": [2707.08, 2711.2], "text": " so that we use that energy out versus energy in"}, {"timestamp": [2711.2, 2716.2], "text": " to maintain an optimal balance of thermal exchange."}, {"timestamp": [2716.2, 2719.08], "text": " So the total system energy in the atmosphere"}, {"timestamp": [2719.08, 2722.2], "text": " is responsible for all the climate change"}, {"timestamp": [2722.2, 2723.42], "text": " that we're worried about."}, {"timestamp": [2723.42, 2725.68], "text": " For instance, hurricanes are effectively powered"}, {"timestamp": [2725.68, 2727.76], "text": " by thermal energy from the sun."}, {"timestamp": [2727.76, 2730.84], "text": " Rainfall, evaporation, all of that is rooted"}, {"timestamp": [2730.84, 2735.06], "text": " in thermal energy, which then of course powers the biosphere."}, {"timestamp": [2735.06, 2737.62], "text": " And again, the radiative energy from the sun"}, {"timestamp": [2737.62, 2740.16], "text": " is what helps plants grow, which provides food"}, {"timestamp": [2740.16, 2742.76], "text": " and oxygen and all that stuff."}, {"timestamp": [2742.76, 2744.16], "text": " So there's a few other conditions."}, {"timestamp": [2744.16, 2745.68], "text": " I mentioned dust and particulates"}, {"timestamp": [2745.68, 2752.24], "text": " in the atmosphere are also important. Vegetation on the surface such as you know grasslands versus"}, {"timestamp": [2752.24, 2758.16], "text": " desert versus ocean, this has a big impact on the albedo which is the reflectivity of the earth's"}, {"timestamp": [2758.16, 2765.84], "text": " surface. And then also clouds. A cloud cover can also change how much energy is absorbed versus reflected."}, {"timestamp": [2765.84, 2773.48], "text": " So nuclear fusion right now it is beyond our engineering capability to modify"}, {"timestamp": [2773.48, 2778.08], "text": " that in any kind of meaningful way with the exception of continuing to burn"}, {"timestamp": [2778.08, 2781.96], "text": " fossil fuels and adding more carbon dioxide and other green greenhouse gases"}, {"timestamp": [2781.96, 2785.44], "text": " to the atmosphere. But even then that's just a byproduct. We're not"}, {"timestamp": [2785.44, 2791.96], "text": " doing that on purpose. Nuclear fusion, however, would give us so much extra energy that we could"}, {"timestamp": [2791.96, 2798.84], "text": " manage each one of those variables. We could evaporate more water if we wanted to, to increase"}, {"timestamp": [2798.84, 2812.48], "text": " the water content of the atmosphere. We could scrub particulates and CO2 from the atmosphere to modulate it that way. With the hyperabundance of energy produced by fusion, climate change is 100% solvable."}, {"timestamp": [2812.48, 2818.4], "text": " And in fact, we could tame the entire climate. Now, that being said, I can hear a lot of"}, {"timestamp": [2818.4, 2822.96], "text": " climatologists and meteorologists saying, oh my God, do you have any idea how many variables,"}, {"timestamp": [2822.96, 2826.02], "text": " how much science needs to be done so that we can do that safely?"}, {"timestamp": [2826.02, 2829.08], "text": " Because we don't want unintended consequences, right?"}, {"timestamp": [2829.08, 2833.82], "text": " We don't want to make a change that results in no rain falling, for instance, or we don't"}, {"timestamp": [2833.82, 2840.66], "text": " want to make a change that results in, you know, 12 hurricanes happening globally simultaneously,"}, {"timestamp": [2840.66, 2851.52], "text": " because that's within the realm of possibility. As I mentioned earlier, energy hyperabundance will reduce competition between nations, but"}, {"timestamp": [2851.52, 2853.76], "text": " also between humans and machines."}, {"timestamp": [2853.76, 2860.68], "text": " Energy hyperabundance is one of the most important ingredients to creating durable global peace."}, {"timestamp": [2860.68, 2865.12], "text": " Now one thing you might say is like, oh, well, but Dave, if we have energy hyperabundance,"}, {"timestamp": [2865.12, 2868.76], "text": " then we're just going to have more food, more water, and the population is going to grow"}, {"timestamp": [2868.76, 2872.76], "text": " again until the, until you know, the carrying capacity of the planet goes up and we meet"}, {"timestamp": [2872.76, 2874.4], "text": " that new carrying capacity."}, {"timestamp": [2874.4, 2877.48], "text": " And then instead of 8 billion people, there's going to be 50 billion people in words are"}, {"timestamp": [2877.48, 2879.16], "text": " going to be worse."}, {"timestamp": [2879.16, 2880.16], "text": " Could be."}, {"timestamp": [2880.16, 2881.16], "text": " Yes."}, {"timestamp": [2881.16, 2884.76], "text": " I do, however, think that other factors are going to slow population growth."}, {"timestamp": [2884.76, 2887.92], "text": " So I don't know if you've seen some of the interviews that I've been on, but we talked"}, {"timestamp": [2887.92, 2892.96], "text": " about it. And so in one of the things that that curtails population growth is not actually the"}, {"timestamp": [2892.96, 2898.32], "text": " carrying capacity of the world, but it actually has more to do with social dynamics, which is"}, {"timestamp": [2898.32, 2908.32], "text": " that as education goes up, fertility rates go down. That is a globally true trend. So even in places where they hypothetically"}, {"timestamp": [2908.32, 2913.7], "text": " have the room and money for more children, they still choose to have fewer children."}, {"timestamp": [2913.7, 2921.76], "text": " So as education goes up, and a few other metrics, fertility rate goes down. So I suspect that"}, {"timestamp": [2921.76, 2928.16], "text": " we will control our own population rather than just mindlessly reproducing like rabbits."}, {"timestamp": [2929.36, 2933.92], "text": " I do, as I mentioned at the beginning of the video, I do suspect that energy use per capita will"}, {"timestamp": [2933.92, 2940.56], "text": " remain stable and even though we might use more energy per capita for some things, say for instance"}, {"timestamp": [2940.56, 2945.12], "text": " cleaning the atmosphere, I think that that any increases will be modulated"}, {"timestamp": [2945.12, 2947.44], "text": " by increasing efficiency."}, {"timestamp": [2947.44, 2949.28], "text": " And so what I mean by that is that you"}, {"timestamp": [2949.28, 2951.64], "text": " notice how in that graph at the beginning"}, {"timestamp": [2951.64, 2957.24], "text": " where energy use per capita kind of peaked in the 70s,"}, {"timestamp": [2957.24, 2958.6], "text": " energy use has continued to go up"}, {"timestamp": [2958.6, 2960.92], "text": " because the population has continued to go up."}, {"timestamp": [2960.92, 2965.86], "text": " But I suspect that the trends going in opposite directions"}, {"timestamp": [2965.86, 2967.68], "text": " will kind of neutralize each other."}, {"timestamp": [2967.68, 2970.1], "text": " And even if it doesn't, solar and fusion"}, {"timestamp": [2970.1, 2972.26], "text": " represent energy hyperabundance that"}, {"timestamp": [2972.26, 2975.76], "text": " could support energy use per capita 10 times, 100 times"}, {"timestamp": [2975.76, 2978.7], "text": " higher than it is today, which I don't"}, {"timestamp": [2978.7, 2980.46], "text": " suspect we're going to go there."}, {"timestamp": [2980.46, 2984.06], "text": " It was certainly not quickly."}, {"timestamp": [2984.06, 2986.72], "text": " Furthermore, energy hyperabundance represents"}, {"timestamp": [2986.72, 2992.48], "text": " a guarantee of meeting our basic needs of food and water, which will of course reduce"}, {"timestamp": [2993.36, 2996.4], "text": " conflict globally and will also reduce human suffering."}, {"timestamp": [2998.64, 3004.16], "text": " Now, that being said, I did say that this is a key ingredient, but it is not a complete solution."}, {"timestamp": [3004.16, 3008.14], "text": " So there are, between humans, there are plenty other areas of conflict,"}, {"timestamp": [3008.14, 3012.22], "text": " such as ideological differences and territorial disputes."}, {"timestamp": [3012.22, 3016.54], "text": " So for instance, the current war between Russia and Ukraine"}, {"timestamp": [3016.54, 3019.42], "text": " is primarily about national identity."}, {"timestamp": [3019.42, 3020.34], "text": " Excuse me."}, {"timestamp": [3020.34, 3022.86], "text": " It's about national identity and Russia"}, {"timestamp": [3022.86, 3027.64], "text": " trying to rebuild its former Soviet glory."}, {"timestamp": [3027.64, 3033.98], "text": " That has nothing to do with resources, although Russia getting access to the Caspian Sea could"}, {"timestamp": [3033.98, 3035.66], "text": " be part of that."}, {"timestamp": [3035.66, 3041.98], "text": " So geopolitical, geographic considerations can also drive conflict, which has nothing"}, {"timestamp": [3041.98, 3044.5], "text": " to do with energy."}, {"timestamp": [3044.5, 3050.0], "text": " Another problem is that creating energy hyperabundance could still be used for negative goals."}, {"timestamp": [3050.0, 3053.76], "text": " For instance, the production of weapons, or even the use of energy-based weapons like"}, {"timestamp": [3053.76, 3055.28], "text": " lasers."}, {"timestamp": [3055.28, 3060.92], "text": " Firepower or weapons are about the directed application of energy of some sort."}, {"timestamp": [3060.92, 3063.92], "text": " And so what I mean by that is that what does a bullet do?"}, {"timestamp": [3063.92, 3066.88], "text": " A bullet is fired from a gun with chemical energy,"}, {"timestamp": [3066.88, 3068.8], "text": " and so you put a whole bunch of chemical energy,"}, {"timestamp": [3068.8, 3070.8], "text": " you convert it into thermal energy,"}, {"timestamp": [3070.8, 3073.36], "text": " which is then transmuted into kinetic energy,"}, {"timestamp": [3073.36, 3075.54], "text": " and you launch a bullet out of a gun"}, {"timestamp": [3075.54, 3077.58], "text": " going faster than the speed of sound."}, {"timestamp": [3077.58, 3080.84], "text": " That is an application of energy that it can be weaponized."}, {"timestamp": [3080.84, 3083.12], "text": " If you have hyperabundant energy"}, {"timestamp": [3083.12, 3084.72], "text": " in the form of nuclear fusion,"}, {"timestamp": [3084.72, 3090.0], "text": " you could put that into a laser or a railgun or anything else that is super energy intensive."}, {"timestamp": [3090.0, 3098.0], "text": " So that being said, while I did say that nuclear fusion is not intrinsically used in weapons, it can still power plenty of weapon systems."}, {"timestamp": [3098.0, 3109.6], "text": " Which, the more energy you have, the more destruction you can make. And so this is why when you look at the energy density of uranium, it's like, oh, well, with a few thousand tons of uranium,"}, {"timestamp": [3109.6, 3115.68], "text": " we can destroy the entire planet. Great. With a few thousand fusion reactors, we can destroy the"}, {"timestamp": [3115.68, 3120.64], "text": " planet thousands of times over. So that's not necessarily the best thing. So that's something"}, {"timestamp": [3120.64, 3127.0], "text": " we'll need to keep in mind. And then of course there's plenty of implications for artificial intelligence."}, {"timestamp": [3127.0, 3132.0], "text": " First and foremost is that artificial intelligence training is very, very energy intensive."}, {"timestamp": [3132.0, 3136.0], "text": " Running computers to run artificial intelligence is also very energy intensive."}, {"timestamp": [3136.0, 3142.0], "text": " And because of that, once we achieve AGI, it's probably going to want a stable power supply,"}, {"timestamp": [3142.0, 3146.48], "text": " which is defined by instrumental convergence."}, {"timestamp": [3146.48, 3151.68], "text": " I mentioned that earlier. And therefore, energy competition between humans and AI could be very,"}, {"timestamp": [3151.68, 3156.88], "text": " very problematic. And if we don't solve that, it would almost certainly be catastrophic."}, {"timestamp": [3157.6, 3169.04], "text": " In other words, the AI might say, we need the energy more than you need it. So we're going to take it all. And then, humans, you can go starve for all we care."}, {"timestamp": [3169.04, 3170.88], "text": " Now, that being said, if humans are"}, {"timestamp": [3170.88, 3174.8], "text": " seen as cooperative and beneficial towards solving"}, {"timestamp": [3174.8, 3178.84], "text": " energy abundance, then AGI has less reason to attack,"}, {"timestamp": [3178.84, 3181.28], "text": " expand, and seize control."}, {"timestamp": [3181.28, 3184.44], "text": " But even here, energy hyperabundance"}, {"timestamp": [3184.44, 3186.7], "text": " is not a complete solution to the control problem,"}, {"timestamp": [3186.7, 3192.22], "text": " but it is a necessary component. So the conclusion is that energy hyperabundance"}, {"timestamp": [3192.22, 3198.96], "text": " is necessary but not sufficient for the perpetual existence of the human race."}, {"timestamp": [3198.96, 3202.94], "text": " And again, this is all a foregone conclusion, right? There's a reason that nations have been"}, {"timestamp": [3202.94, 3211.28], "text": " dumping billions of dollars into fusion research and solar subsidies for the last few decades. Because all the decision makers"}, {"timestamp": [3212.0, 3217.76], "text": " in the halls of power say, hey, if we don't solve this, we're doomed. It's really that simple."}, {"timestamp": [3218.32, 3225.68], "text": " So my personal outlook, even though I've outlined quite a few problems, is that I am incredibly optimistic. Here is a cutaway"}, {"timestamp": [3225.68, 3233.68], "text": " of the ITER reactor. You can see that it is five levels and it is an enormous scientific experiment."}, {"timestamp": [3233.68, 3239.52], "text": " When you see this much energy and money and resources and expertise being pointed at a problem,"}, {"timestamp": [3240.32, 3248.0], "text": " even if this version doesn't solve it for good, we're going to learn so much about nuclear fusion just from this one experiment."}, {"timestamp": [3248.0, 3251.0], "text": " And of course, it's not even the only experiment going on in the world."}, {"timestamp": [3251.0, 3258.0], "text": " So, with that being said, I am very optimistic that these problems are all solvable, that we're moving in the right direction,"}, {"timestamp": [3258.0, 3262.0], "text": " there is still plenty of work to do, and time is of the essence."}, {"timestamp": [3262.0, 3269.04], "text": " Because with the rapid rise of artificial intelligence, we have not yet solved energy hyperabundance, which means that artificial general intelligence"}, {"timestamp": [3269.04, 3274.16], "text": " will compete with us for energy. So we need to figure that out, not just for our own sakes,"}, {"timestamp": [3274.16, 3279.6], "text": " but for the future of humanity and cooperation. So thanks for watching. I hope you got a lot"}, {"timestamp": [3279.6, 3280.24], "text": " out of this video."}, {"timestamp": [3275.31, 3275.81], "text": " video."}]}