{"text": " Hi everyone, Roger here and Nathan and we're here to talk about building an AI kingdom And in this week's episode, we're chatting about all things AI assistance So get your coffee ready. Let's dive in we we may spend a bit of time just Trying things out and learning things as we go where We're currently learning about all these things ourselves, and we're not in any way, shape, or form experts in this. But we are interested in it. Why? Because we kind of see this is where everything's going with the large language models that have been out, like the GTP, GPT, sorry, and of course, OpenARGPT, and there's a few other language models out as well that you can run on your own GPU. And we've kind of found these projects, and one of these projects is called the Raven Project by David Shapiro, and it's an open source project, and his mission is, Nath, do you mind if I talk about it? Yeah, no go for it. His mission is to build, if AI is the future and see how far it's become in the last two years alone, then his mission is to build an AI that has three main objectives and that is to increase prosperity, increase understanding for the human race, increase prosperity. So prosperity, he mentions in one of his videos, that it's about, of course, it's not just about wealth or money, but it's about health, it's about all species on Earth, not just humans. And then he also says that one of the main objectives of Raven Project is to reduce suffering as well. So you kind of need all three. And he talks about why they're called heuristics. He talks about why if you just lean on one, then the other suffers, particularly in the context of AI learning. So you have to use your bot, you have to train your bot, and then we are moving towards a world where that bot becomes autonomous in your life. Then Nathan and I have our own perspectives on some of these things. Me personally, I believe we're heading towards a world where we need to be kind of AI self-sufficient, meaning that we move away from all of our data going into the cloud to big corporations and into having our own AI assistant built into our home and then we can connect to it, built into our home or computer or something like that, and we can connect to it wherever we are built into our home or computer or something like that. And we can connect to it wherever we are via our mobile devices. And I think this is going to be really cool. And Raven is a project that's sort of targeted towards that kind of view. I think they are thinking about launching a larger cloud-based version. But I know Nathan and I are interested in having a version locally hosted so we can firewall our data, firewall our conversations with the OpenAI Assistant. I should mention too there's other projects as well out there. There's openassistant.org, openassistant.io, openassistant.org, openassistant.io, but we are interested quite a lot on this video. We'll focus on Raven, because it seems to be, at least from a content perspective, he has... It's doing some very interesting things, I think. Doing some very interesting things, yeah. So, I've been watching a few of his YouTube videos, and I'd recommend anyone to go over and that's interested in this stuff to go and follow his channel. He does do some longer live streams, but I really like the way he cuts. Like, when he's doing some coding, he tries to make it accessible for people, and he's written a few books that I've pulled up here, likeony of Thought, Benevolent by Design, and Natural Language, Cognitive Architecture, which is really the one that he's kind of focusing on lately. I haven't read his book, so I've only been watching his YouTube, but just picking up the ideas that he brings across, it kind of makes sense. As a cognitive architecture, I think the way, from what he's saying, no one has really kind of been thinking about this, as a cognitive architecture, I think the way from what he's saying, no one has really kind of been thinking about this, and I think it's a really good framework for what GPT is. So GPT is like the calculator, but there's no machine around it currently. Like, yes, chat GPT has built a dialogue so you can go back and forth with it, but I feel like that's just the beginning of the applications, and so this idea of a cognitive architecture, I feel like, is kind of like the frameworks of tomorrow's GPT-based apps, and so some of the things that we're talking about here are giving GPT long-term memory, giving it goals, giving it the ability to pull up semantically similar memories from the past, so that even if the GPT algorithm, I think if you pull up like OpenAI's token counter, it lets you... 1096 tokens I think is the max. Yeah, it'll let you have, it'll calculate a bunch of tokens, but there's a maximum number of tokens that it'll let you use. And so if you can pull up, so when you're asking a question, if you can load the context with all the relevant information for that and the specific goals, it's going to do a much better job at performing that task. And so I think that's kind of the future. And I think exploring where David Shapiro is heading with that is really interesting. His latest video, which I watched today, was on tying it in with a service called Pinecone. So Pinecone is a vector database. I haven't looked into it to a deep degree, but I understand it's what powers Facebook's semantic search or something to that effect. Something similar to that. So it lets us pull up semantically. It's like a database for a semantically similar content. And so you can place your memories or your chat messages or whatever somewhere in this latent space, and then you can go and query similar memories. So, for example, if we wanted to build a, I mean, I think of myself largely the job that I do as a director, you know, is a glorified sort of information routing agent. I've got information coming from clients, from service providers, from different stakeholders, and I'm trying to make sure the information gets to the right person. And then I might be managing a bunch of projects at any one time. And so, managing the company, and then I'm managing all these individual projects, I'm managing the company and then I'm managing all these individual projects. The joys of running an agency. And so, if I could have a system that assisted me with that, that knew when I'm working on project ABC, that these are the last 10 correspondents we've had from the client, from the development team, and then it was able to, if I said write a letter updating the client with the latest updates, it could just do that for me because it was contextually aware of everything that was going on. Whereas I can get it to do that now, but I have to copy and paste from different places and manually load up the context. And so I think by building, by using this kind of cognitive thinking machine, we can build a sort of system that can switch, well, it can have a longer context, but then also could switch context as well. So it could have one job as a, it could have one set of goals as managing one project, and it could have another set of goals managing another project. For example, if I considered my home life, a different project, or my relationships with people, a different project, with my wife, a different project, then the goal might be to maximize happiness. Whereas at work, it might be to get the job done on time and on schedule. So we could load it up with different goals. And then when it's like in home Nathan role, it's giving me advice or helping full tips to be, you know, to make everything run smoothly at home. Whereas if I'm at work and I'm trying to get things done, it would help me craft a list of tasks. I could ask it, let me know anything that you need to, I need to worry about today, and it would take the recent messages from the team and pipe that together. So yeah, does that kind of give a bit of an overview? Yeah, I think so. I think that's what's kind of missing now from the chat GPT, that, I mean, it's come so far so quickly, so it's only a matter of time, particularly with projects like Raven. But having that long-term memory is so important in terms of it being a life assistant. So imagine if at home you had a life assistant who was walled off to the outside world to a degree in terms of sharing any personal data, but could actually benefit like it goes through your messages, it goes through your emails, it has context on a daily basis on all of these things to enable you to seamlessly get it to do work for you essentially. And you can train it to do specific work tasks. It's like your work from home assistant, as well as your general life assistance with appointments and bookings and all that kind of stuff. And the other thing is, of course, long-term memory is a big thing. And then the next thing would be integration with third-party services and things like that, like calendars, emails, maybe making orders and purchases, perhaps sending emails, text messages, any number of things. Maybe you can interface it. I don't really know where the research has gone with this yet, but interfacing it with APIs, third-party APIs to do any kind of custom functions, maybe interfacing it with your own commands or custom commands that you've created to perform a certain action, and you can train it to do that action. I think there'll be like this, I can see like there's going to be like there's the Zapiers of now. Imagine a Zapier that does context injection into GPT prompts. I don't know how exactly what form it takes, but it's like all this data about me is everywhere. How can I take OpenAI and then pipe into it like contextually relevant information? So when I'm like write an email to so-and-so it pulls up the last X emails to so-and-so as context or some kind of application like that. So yeah, that's kind of a couple of little things like that to help me with, I have an issue with saved messages on Slack, I love to save them and then have like a list that I'm going to go through later and reply to. However, I found that over time I don't always get back to my saved messages. So I built a little bot that I can run in the terminal and it'll just go through my saved messages and generate different replies to the messages. I've been through a couple of iterations with this with my team and got some feedback. At first, the responses were really like the chat GPT ones, really verbose and long, and people were just like, well, a text. The next slot, I made it shorter and I made it suggest different alternatives, like a short version, another version, whatever. And then people complained it wasn't taking, it wasn't using my tone of voice. So then I used like two-shot learning to load it with a couple of conversations of how I typically respond to stuff. And then it started to respond more like me. But then I realized it was still a chat bot, it was still trying to keep the conversation going. And really as a manager or director, you was still trying to keep the conversation going and really, as a manager or a director, you don't want to have a long conversation with someone on Slack. You want to give them the answer or the direction and get them to move on the task. So, yeah, it's interesting. But, so, yeah, I think maybe we can dive in here and have a look through the code base as a starting point. I should mention that Dave has a YouTube channel and he's got a fundraising goal to get his core living costs covered and then he's going to turn off ads. So if anyone wants to jump across and support him, I think it's on Patreon or something like that, that would be well worth supporting, because he has more time to work on this project. I think that would be awesome. He said he is doing it full time now as well, and is looking for a technical team as well, people with experience from everything from psychology all the way to mobile apps and DevOps. Yeah. Yeah, so I've got my team kind of working on some aspects of this. Like at the moment, I would love to see my team run with this project and get it running up and running locally. So I've got them just sort of tracking some of the concepts at the moment because I think they're new. But I think this, I've just dived into the Raven project here. Now, I think he has mentioned that he is having an, I mean, he did have one project for himself where he was like, don't open pull requests. He's just going to close them all. And I'm not sure if this is the project, but he did set up a sec, I thought it was a second project to cover the community effort so that he could have a space, I guess, essentially for him to hack away on stuff, and then another one for people to. Do you want to share your screen? Oh yeah, sorry. You push the button to... Yeah, let's do that. Let's see if this works. Okay. There we go. Sorry, I thought this was up while we were going through it. So yeah, these are the recent projects. This is the one he's obviously been most active on, and then there's a couple of other ones. So I think this idea of recursive summarization, so if you know your prompt can only fit 8,000 tokens in, then you can recursively summarize it. So every time you have a conversation, it summarizes it to make sure it fits in those 8000 tokens. Eventually, of course, you're going to compress the information and lose the detail. And the analogy he makes is that's kind of what our brains do anyway. If you were asked what you did yesterday, what you had for breakfast, you don't really know. You just know you had breakfast, then you did your teeth or whatever, but all the details, unless there's something... Yeah, you might say one word which could be eggs or something like that, but really that was like a five to ten minute chunk of your life and a lot of stuff happened in that time. Exactly, yeah. So, I think that's an interesting concept that folds into it. Long-term chat with external sources. So, I don't know exactly, but these are sort of related to some of the YouTube videos he's done. A lot of the work he's done, it's just saving the files out to a JSON file locally or something like that, so you can see the logs here. So, he's not even tying it. If you scroll down in his repo a little bit, the YouTube chapter generator, I literally wrote one last night. So I've compared my method to his method, and it's a bit different, but it sort of achieves the same goal. Yeah, it's kind of fun looking around in people's codebases. So anyone that's getting into development, I think it's kind of fun looking around in people's code bases. So anyone that's getting into development, I think it's a really great way to start out. Also, because particularly with Python, the code is so readable, you can dive really right into it. And so, for example, if we are even not sure about what something is doing, we can dive in here to the, is there some code in here? There is no code in here. Let's see what is done here. I think these are all, these look like placeholder files. Do we have another branch here? Yeah, let's have a look at this branch. OK, so it seems like I'm not exactly sure where the... Here we go, we have some code here. So if we're not sure what exactly this is doing, we can always just grab this for non-technical guys out there. And we can just say, can you explain what this is doing at a ever year old level. This code is creating a program that receives requests from other programs over the internet. The program is built using a package called fastAPI, which helps it connect to incoming requests. The code is also using uvunicorn, which helps it to reprogram and listen to incoming requests. So you can pause that and read that if you want, but this will give you a good understanding in text format of what it's doing if you are not sure. So yeah, so I think the interesting thing about this microservices is it's kind of got an inner loop, which I think is the one that's handling the information as it's coming in, an outer loop, which works on a slightly longer timeline, and then a dream sequence, which happens offline. I think this can be modeled like you've got an inner dialogue in your mind, and you've got your outer loop, which is how you're interacting with the environment, and then you've got a dream sequence, which sort of compresses memories and does stuff to them. And so that, I think, is the architecture. I'm probably bastardizing this, I'm sorry, David, if you're watching this, but that's, I think, the idea that's interesting. So I'm not sure if we can actually... And I did like the concept that he's got it set up as micro services. He explained that in one of his videos, too, which means that as the team grows, people can work on, can be whole teams on just those components, as opposed to having some of my projects that are sort of deeply integrated, like all of the different components are quite deeply integrated with each other and it's difficult to separate them. Of course, you can do it with separate functions and classes, but just the way he's built this whole repository, he's put a lot of deep thought into. Yeah, did we want to get to the point of trying to run it? I don't know if there's much to run at the moment. Yeah, I was looking at this. It does say if we can go to the bottom, it does say you can check it out and then you can create a virtual environment, activate a virtual environment according to some instructions, but I'm not sure what to do past that point. Yeah, so what is the environment file? Is it using Conda? Mostly, yeah, Torch and TensorFlow installed. Yeah, I'm not super... I've played with Conda a little bit lately, but not a great deal. So yeah, I guess we can give it a go. You don't have to, it's all good. Just thought I would. Yeah, we can... I don't know, you'll have to talk so people don't get bored watching me. Yeah. But yeah, we can have a crack at it. Let me change over to... So I can't guarantee that we're going to get this working. We might do another video or follow-up video with it working in the future. But it is quite interesting. There are some demo videos of David running it online. We would like to contribute to those demo videos so people can find information about Raven through our videos as well, and they can get involved. I do think having a community-based project like this is going to be really important for us to have data sovereignty of our own data and how we communicate. Imagine all the data that gets recorded. I mean, think of the amount of data that chat GPT has now, if you've been using it as much as we have. And they say explicitly not to share personal information to chat GPT, because it could be reviewed by someone who's training and improving the model. So it's important to, I think that the future of this is that there could just be this mountain of personal information because you're in a conversation, right're you're treating it like another person so it in a way you're more likely to give out Details about your personal life and and whatnot How you operate what even just the commands you're entering is is is enough for an algorithm to predict things about you So it's this is why I think having a walled local environment would be, would be really important to running this. And so no doubt right now the large companies are putting together improvements to existing chat engines which have these large language models in place to ultimately collect a lot of data because they generate revenue by selling your data to advertisers and being able to deliver personalized ads and whatnot across their platforms, and that's how they make money. So what I'm suggesting is that if you're watching this, you do happen to be spending a little time on the web, and you come across, miraculously, our videos and listening to us talking now, to think about what the future of your data in an AI world would look like. I mean, already we know that if you're using a cloud-based platform for free, you are the product. So our goal is to, with, we know that AI is coming, it's gonna be a big part of our life a lot more. I mean, by 2025, 2028, 2030, who knows what level this is going to be at. But it would be good to maintain personal data sovereignty by understanding some of these projects in the early stage before it happens. So if there's this brand new AI that's released, AI assistant for your home released that is connected to the, excuse me, connected to a cloud on a large global network, then yeah, I mean, a lot of these large organizations have openly said that privacy is like the final frontier that they have to conquer to have full access and control. So it's no, yeah, that's no secret. So the question is what can we do about it in this world where technology and AI is increasing significantly? And this is our kind of thinking around that is to how can we build these AI assistants into our own lives before we get invaded and forced to use other outside cloud-based ones. So just keep that in mind. That may be investing in a decent computer with a GPU for your own home and learning how to do a bit of programming. So, yeah. I'm trying to run through doing this now and I can't create the environment. I'm not sure exactly what I'm doing wrong. I happen pretty new to Conda, so what I'm doing here is I'm just going back and forwards between Conda and GPT to try and maybe it will help people. Have you had much experience with it? Only in Only recently I was trying to get some torch and tensorflow stuff working On I believe it was Colab But then I also did run it locally as well because torch Sort of seemed to run a little bit more Torch sort of seemed to run a little bit more, it was a bit more compatible on Mac through a Condor environment as opposed to a Pip environment. Yeah, I'm used to Pip. I mean, a Python developer, in case anyone doesn't know, for, I don't know, the better part of 10 years, when I stopped working as a hardware engineer, I decided to set up a company and I looked at the different languages that I wanted to invest my time in learning, and I picked Python 10 or so years ago because it was a nice readable language and I could see that it was maintainable. So, first, I could go and learn from other people more quickly because I could go and read code on GitHub.ub. And so in those days, we were using just pip, creating environments manually, and then condas come around to simplify because you need so many machine learning kind of dependencies to get stuff doing it. The data scientists guys don't want to spend all their time setting up stuff. So that's kind of spend all their time setting up stuff. So yeah, so that's kind of up in there. So I've tried running condor update, but I'm still getting this packages not found stuff here. So I don't know if you're going to have it. I might be able to. Yeah, sure. Can't see it. So I'm going from the instructions on the page. I'm in the code. I've checked out the right branch. It just says to create a Python environment with your tools of choice. And then all these files that it's giving errors on, they are. Do you have any of those tools like installed like with brew or anything like that? I guess you have... I'm not using a Mac so... Yeah. I guess maybe he is using a Mac. Let me have a quick look at any issues here. Communication plan, responsibilities, branching strategy. Yeah, it would be great to, even if we can't in this video, next video we'll get one up and running hopefully, and maybe we'll try and see what it's capable of. That'd be fun. Fun little live video interacting with it. I think he's got voice working as well. Yeah, for an older video, so about seven months ago, he had voice working with the Google text-to-speech. You could choose it to be sort of a masculine voice or a feminine voice. you could choose it to be sort of a masculine voice or a feminine voice. So I'm just diving into the conda documentation to create an environment from a YAML file. I remember last time I was asking chat GPT, I think it was giving me the orders incorrectly. The first line of the YAML file selects its name or specifies its name. So let's try... So it's got a name already, Raven. So, PonderEnvironmentList. Doesn't seem to work. So, Conda environment list. Doesn't seem to have created it as of yet. Yeah. Cool. Well, even if that doesn't work, we can continue the discussion about how we would use these chat things on a daily basis. I think we're already rapidly learning how useful a large language model is in our daily lives. You know, some people are fearful of it because it can do so much and does replace a lot of, potentially a lot of roles, but at the same time it also makes people way more efficient. So it's kind of a challenge, but of course the best thing to do is to adapt and make yourself make yourself knowledgeable of this technology. So if you're looking for a job, you're a more likely candidate. You haven't got your head in the sand, so to speak. haven't got your head in the sand, so to speak. But what I've found is that there's more and more uses that I'm discovering every day what I can use it for. And sometimes when I feel blocked, a lot of the times I can get unblocked quite quickly with chat GPT. And not all the time. I mean there's there's definitely some code that I've written with chat GPT which is wrong And and it doesn't always get it right, but it it gets me 80% of the way there And I know I've probably mentioned that in other videos, but that's probably what I've lacked a lot about it There's some tasks that I've tried to get to do which are really difficult. I'll give you one example of that task. So say you've got an image that you're using for private use and it's got a watermark on it, it's very difficult to remove watermarks on images, which is great. I mean, that's great for the copyright owner, of course. But there's other reasons why you might want to remove watermarks, which is just for private use like training, putting it on a personal card to give to someone or sending it to someone digitally or something like that. But of course these days you don't really need to because you've got the text-to-image AI that you can access like Midjourney, Dali and stuff like. And they're only getting better as well. But there's limitations, of course, not just on the code that it writes, but there's physical limitations on our technology and our understanding of how to process things. And of course, this is, large language models trained on our understanding of that. So if you're asking it something that is reaching the understanding of humans, then it's, yeah, it's not going to do a great job in general. The other thing was, yeah, I mean, chat GPT is great in terms of getting 80% of the way there, but then often to get the next 20% requires, you know, programming knowledge, if it's a program based thing, or integrating, say integrating with third party API's that doesn't have knowledge of or things like that. So yeah, I think we're all we're only just on the cusp of understanding. Doing my happy dance. Cool. I got the requirements installing. I think he's like hard-coded all these versions that are probably specific to his environment, which is fine because he said it's a project for himself. But if it's going to be open source, we'll probably need to figure that out because they don't seem to work on Ubuntu. So I just commented out a lot of the versions that were giving errors and we're installing the latest version of them, I guess. We'll see if it works. But yeah. Yep, sounds good. Might take a while for all we know, because I think Transformers is quite big. Right, yeah, I'm not sure. It does seem to be installing quite a few, but I'm sure it probably won't work on this live demo. We'll see how it goes. We hope it fails. Yeah. TensorFlow Intel. Yeah, so I think that probably this project isn't ready for primetime YouTube live streams. But yeah, I'll just keep plotting away on the things here. Yeah. Yeah, all good. I think it's probably just good for people to see that there's projects out there that gives them options. I mean, we're not, not going to be reliant on, you know, like the other choice for a lot of non-tech people is to just go with whatever the big tech companies have or, or go without. And a lot of the times going without will probably forfeit you from other things in society depending on where society is going. So yeah, at least this is kind of another option if you're willing to just become a little bit techie to learn some of these things. Of course, it's such early days, so keep your finger on the pulse. And yeah, subscribe to our channel and we'll keep you updated on any new advancements that come out in this space. And yeah, I just encourage you to think about what potentially could be happening in the next couple of years, having an assistant which knows a lot about you and can help you immensely. I've been thinking about it. I actually, because I've got the YouTube Red subscription or whatever, and I go around listening to it. But a lot of what it's playing is like, just, I don't know, like, yes, it's interesting, but it's not, it's not a most productive way of learning, because I'm listening passively to information. And I'm thinking, like, there is an always on best friend that's maybe not a best friend, but someone that can have a stimulating conversation with, that I can go through life just chatting, or it would help me. I think because of the way neurons work, if I could have a back and forth conversation, it would probably help the brain rewire itself quicker. Because you'd be able to get knowledge in there, and it would be knowledge that was like you're kind of actively engaging with rather than passively listening to. Yeah. So I'm thinking, is there not an application for, I mean Siri's always on, it's just so horrible. Like, you know, I get frustrated every time I use it. But if there was an always on agent that I could just interact with, I think maybe the reason they're not doing it is, maybe the technology is just too new, but maybe it can't scale, maybe it's not efficient enough. But I think it can be made efficient. I think a 30, 90 GPT. Well, I mean, check GPT. I mean, there's 100 million users in five days or something. But the amount of money they're spending on server infrastructure is huge to accommodate that many people. Even last night, as a plus member, I was kicked off. I couldn't get in for several hours because it was too busy. So this is why I think having a decentralized approach could be really good. So each having, you know, everyone has an AI in their house and then no single organization has to have billions and billions of dollars worth of servers running this stuff. And we're all responsible for our own AI in a way, in that we have the computing power for it. Of course, that then potentially, there's a power cost associated with that. And the cost of power is going up. So that could become a roadblock to this whole having a decentralized assistant thing, or if most people in some countries can't even afford power. So that's a whole another separate discussion. But yeah, having the decentralized assistant in your house knows everything about you, can help you immensely with productivity, where to focus your time, integrating things, getting across more things, helping with relationships. Like, there's so many use cases. Yeah, I don't know if anyone's doing integrating tasks into the, I mean I imagine some people are integrating tasks, but yeah, it would be interesting to see what that looks like. Like write an email for me and it actually writes the email and sends it, you know? Yeah, that's what I'm really interested in too. But where I thought Raven sits at the moment is so early, but is focusing on the fundamentals of the AI, you know, working to optimize those three problems of prosperity, suffering, increasing guess, that falls into the prosperity is increasing productivity or doing tasks, which I'm yet to see in this project, but that would be game-changing if you could combine all that together. Yeah, I think it's inevitable. It'll happen. We're heading in that direction. Yeah. So, from what I can see, this application is connecting. There's a whole heap of microservices. They look like they're connecting using this UVCore thing, which I don't know a whole heap about. So, I would want to learn a little bit about that. What is uvcore? Okay, so it's a web server, is it? Yeah, it's a asynchronous server for the application to expose it on a port, basically. application to expose it on a port, basically. Yeah, so I guess that has to be fast, because people have to have an exchange, quite a fast real-time exchange with this. Yeah. I'm just trying to find, I know I've seen him do more code than I'm finding. I feel like I've seen him do more code than I'm seeing here. Yeah. That's how I kind of saw it too as I was going through. In his YouTube videos he was referencing a lot of other older repositories, but he said this is the main one. So, yeah, we'll write the syntax here. So, we'll learn more. We should have done this stuff first. Like, we're probably just being... Yeah, I think it's because I've already looked through a lot of this stuff. lot of this stuff. I want to just open up this, open up this, open up this. Highly specialized cognitive microservice to collaborate a paralyzed cognitive architecture. Yeah. Yeah, it seems Mozilla AI is interested in the Raven project, which is interesting. Yeah. Consensus. Mozilla is interested in creating autonomous AI agents. Probiotics of work around cognitive architecture and AGIA material. Family. So there is a video on YouTube called Introducing the Raven MVP, a general purpose AI companion with a live demo from David Shapiro on his channel. So that's, if you want to watch a live demo of it, we'll put it in the description below. And you can watch David actually run his code base and chat with it. It's got a voice that he's added and everything. Here's some discussions here. So hardware portable Raven. At a minimum, what do they need? Automatic speech recognition, text-to-speech, and then... Yeah, so some people, and then there's another one of some people talking about putting it on a Raspberry Pi, connecting to your phone via Bluetooth to be the processor, but then maybe perhaps your phone connects to your computer via the internet. computer via the internet. Yeah, that's the kind of, I was thinking about having some sort of low power microphone speaker device kind of thing. It seems pretty trivial to spin this out to a wide array of vendors once the architecture is solidified. Yeah. Yeah, I wouldn't focus too much on the specific implementation of the hardware. Can be for a prototype, can be over-engineered, just have a Raspberry Pi linked back to a local computer if you need to. First thing I think is to get it working. But I'll share your experiments and tests here. AGI project, requirements, hydro requirements. So This is what he was considering using for something like this. What is this? Privacy respecting smart speaker. It's open hardware for software and developers and makers. Provides a great voice experience without satisfying privacy. So yeah, it's a little pricey. But I deliberately haven't got one of those in my house because of the privacy implications. So yeah. So, yeah, so people worried about running this stuff on on small micro services. So they're talking about hardware again. I think they're going a little bit... I mean, yeah, it's good to discuss the hardware, but I would focus on... maybe there's more of the software that I'm missing. That's what interests me. Yeah, I think that's what's happened, is that there's this new repository, things aren't fully worked out yet, and yeah, there's a lot of discussions on the philosophy and the hardware, but not a lot of instructions on how to get it running on different platforms. Yeah, I don't think there's anything to... you've seen it running there, haven't you? Should we find the YouTube video? Just on the YouTube video, yeah. I've just mentioned it earlier. Did you want to paste the link into the chat? Yeah, send it to you. So I'm just going to fast forward through. This is a different repo that he's referring to. Yeah, can we see which one it is? This one looks like Raven MVP public. What was that file called? looks like Raven MVP public. What was that file called? I think it was Raven MVP public. OK. Yeah. So Raven MVP public memories. I just didn't see anything like that in the... No, I know. Yeah, that's what I went through it too and I just couldn't find it. Dave Shapiro, go to repositories. So obviously there's some stuff committed in here, not too much in the other ones. Rather than one of the other things we can do is we can get inside. So I always find interesting to look at the network. So you can see here's a few other people who are contributing stuff. pull request one, domain. So what is this file? You can dive in here and see what people are doing, but it doesn't seem to be much created in that network. But so yeah, it does seem like this is really the most up-to-date place for looking at stuff. Yeah, anyway, sorry guys, we couldn't get it running, but we'll look into that more and we do think that this could be a future that could be beneficial for people who want to adopt the AI stuff but really concerned about the privacy implications. I think also just from an application development point of view, like just as a framework that you could use to build your own applications, like okay, maybe a lot of the conventions and the code's not there yet, but who wants to be building everything from scratch themselves all the time? And so getting behind a project like this where you're building out the the boilerplate stuff so that you don't have to do it all individually, I think makes perfect sense. So you can then you can make it narrow AI projects as well. So yeah, definitely. Yeah, this is a thing. This is a community project. So there's no guarantee that it's going to be working. It's not a commercial project there isn't like the support, but there's a Support forum where it's community members helping community members. So you got to have a have a sense of compassion for these projects because it's it's never always going to be like a state-of-the-art thing that's running perfectly at 99% uptime all the time. So you have to start thinking like a developer and that things take a while and improvements and while and improvements. And yeah, I think, yeah, it's going to be a really interesting project to keep an eye on over the coming years. It seems like he's doing it full time now. And there's quite a large community in the discussions. If you go to the Discussions tab, and you can see a lot of a lot of conversations going on Looks like they might be I don't know what the discussion is, but maybe having a discord eventually But there's this one of those discussions. They have like 60 or something people should we have a discord slack reddit or Can't read that last one. Yeah, so interesting. Yeah, so I would have a look further at getting this working and try and get behind it. What else do you want to talk about? Is there anything else you want to cover today? I think that's probably it. What else do we want to talk about? Is there anything else you want to cover today? I think that's probably it. I've been working a lot on my YouTube automation stuff, getting chapters working, as I mentioned earlier. So that's an exciting project, and I'll probably release the chapter selection thing and a few other things to the community. So yeah, I'd be excited to get that happening soon. Sounds great. Yeah, my goal is to get our last video up this afternoon if I have time. Depends, I've got a few bugs to work out. But yeah, the first video is on YouTube and I'll probably set that live soon. And just working out ways to chug out or slice it into smaller components like stories as well as smaller sort of 10-minute bite-sized videos as well. Yeah, that'd be interesting to see that up and running and then yeah we'll just try and get better at this every week. I tried to get better with my camera management skills and stuff today using OBS. Yeah, I think that was a significant improvement. My videos are done from my office in a meeting room, so I can't really, I'm just like sitting with my laptop on a desk. I can't really set up too much here because there's no PowerPoints or anything nearby, but yeah, we'll see how we go. See what the feedback is. We just want to keep it a minimum viable product at this point, so something that we can jump on at a moment's notice and hit record and start producing content. So yeah, that's the most important thing. Yeah, I think we'll wrap it up there. Yeah, from my side, I don't have a lot of progress. I've been playing around with some of the image generation, run a little sticker store on Etsy for my wife, and we make stickers. So actually, I'll pull it up just for argument's sake. But yeah, we've been generating stickers for that and selling the stickers there. So that's been fun. I don't know if it's going to work or not, but... We can view... Our profile. Sunny Sticker Maker is our name. And so all this artwork is AI generated. I think you need to switch your camera. Yeah, so all these stickers are AI generated. And then we put them onto sort of a slide deck, and I bought a sticker printer thing. And so, yeah, this is a little fun little side hobby. We're not really selling many of them, but it was a chance to get familiar with actually making something and selling it as a physical product instead of just always trading time. And we sometimes get interesting requests. The one that I think that was the coolest one was probably the sushi one. And so all these cool little pictures here, it was generated just with the image. And then my designer took them and put them on this sheet. So it's not like they just pop out of the algorithm exactly. Yeah, there's still human intervention there. Yeah, but that's one tangible thing. And I think there are a lot of people doing stuff like that. So yeah, oh yeah, if you just look like, yeah, like if you look at, like, I don't know, canvas image art, canvas canvas wall art or something you'll see a lot of them and just images that have just been created with mid journey and And resized to that print size. I don't know if I'll have mid journey in the title. They probably try to hide that fact, but Yeah We're doing it. I print out like look at this one. You know, like it's whatever it is. Yeah. How many of these? Are they selling these? This is 3,900. This is not just of this one. This is of their whole store. Yeah. So but yeah, there. I don't know if it looks like all of them, like everything says I print on it. Yeah. So that's that's interesting. I think it's I think there's a lot of people doing this. So it's really more about how good you are at marketing yourself and getting reviews and things like that in this marketplace. I think there's a lot of people doing this stuff. I think where the interesting things that are much harder to do, like writing entire books and getting them on Amazon, or creating videos and getting them on YouTube, or doing something that typically requires, like, it's a little bit more complicated to do, because the barrier to entry for this stuff now is so low that anyone can Get up and running in like in a day So then it's just you know it could take months for you to get your first sale and next sale like you can't guarantee that the traffic's there unless you've You're doing advertising yourself, so I reckon that's probably how these guys, they might have already been established store and they've just absorbed this new technology. The thing about Etsy is you can go back and actually see what they've sold. Yeah. It's crazy but you can see whenever this was, I don't know, this is what they sold, you know, way back when, whenever they started, I guess. So 2018, there's comments on this one. Yeah, four years ago. Yeah, so they've been running for four years. And then probably, I don't know what they were selling originally, but lately, you can see the sorts of things they're selling, at least in their store here. And so you could say, yeah, it's, I mean, they're not all AI, I don't know, or any of them AI. I don't know where that page was before. There was a whole heap of AI ones, but I think they're trying to sell them, but I don't see anyone actually having purchased any of them. Yeah. And that's what I think think I think that the novelty of it because it's just readily available anyone could just go online and create their own art and then put it on a print on demand demand service like a Vista print or something and and drop it in there and I mean, that's what I did for my dad's birthday was like I made some artwork with Dali that was Similar to an artist that he really liked and I just gave it to him for his like, you know Did it put put the picture on the on the canvas and the Vista print? Thing and then sent to him Yeah, so it's it's easy to do Yeah, it comes up to such great like detailed art there. Yeah, it's shockingly good. I always just love to paint here. But now there's just going to be this flood of artwork that people are just, I don't think, I think the people who are buying, there's far less people buying them than there are people like wanting to sell them. I mean this has been sold are people's like Wanting to sell them I mean this has been sold but it's like 6 17, you know, like yeah The cost cost is going to drop down drastically the pro. I don't know what the profit they're making on that like it would be pretty low The print on demand service would be what's a digital download this one. Oh, it's a digital download. Okay so would be? Well, it's a digital download, this one. Oh, it's a digital download, okay. Okay, well, in that case, then it's all profit, so Etsy will take a percentage, of course. Yeah, so I mean, that's an interesting kind of avenue to take. And that would all be about volume, so you'd have to have heaps of... Yeah, I guess, you know, for us, we would like to, Yeah, I guess for us, we would like to narrow down on one of these community projects, build this AI kind of assistant and really not have to go to our day jobs every day and grind for funds. Although I enjoy my work, I guess what we'll eventually get to is picking a project and building a product out of that and then making that come to life. So that's kind of where we are heading. And then as soon as we can free up our time from, you know, decouple our labor from time, then we'll be able to work more on cool stuff. So. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. All yeah, definitely Yeah, all right guys, well, uh build your AI kingdom one one prompt at a time and Thanks for spending time with us today and Take taking a bit of a dive into the AI assistant world and some of the projects we're working on Nate you have anything you want to say, sum up? No. Cool. Enjoy. Thanks for going with us. I'm sorry it was, you know, so long-winded. We'll try and get better at this, but really we're just we're really trying to just iteratively improve every time and so we're honestly just trying to make sure we make a video at this stage every week and then make slight improvements as we go. And so for those of us who are early and bearing with the journey, you'll see that we'll improve. We're making an effort to improve every week. But yeah, it's not. We're not there yet. We're not pretending to be primetime or anything like that. So yeah. Cool. Yeah. Cool. No worries. All right, guys. We're not pretending to be prime time No worries, all right guys, we'll talk to you later. See ya", "chunks": [{"timestamp": [0.0, 6.38], "text": " Hi everyone, Roger here and Nathan and we're here to talk about building an AI kingdom"}, {"timestamp": [6.76, 11.68], "text": " And in this week's episode, we're chatting about all things AI"}, {"timestamp": [12.28, 13.56], "text": " assistance"}, {"timestamp": [13.56, 19.32], "text": " So get your coffee ready. Let's dive in we we may spend a bit of time just"}, {"timestamp": [19.8, 25.32], "text": " Trying things out and learning things as we go where We're currently learning about all these things ourselves,"}, {"timestamp": [25.32, 31.44], "text": " and we're not in any way, shape, or form experts in this."}, {"timestamp": [31.44, 33.2], "text": " But we are interested in it."}, {"timestamp": [33.2, 34.2], "text": " Why?"}, {"timestamp": [34.2, 37.6], "text": " Because we kind of see this is where everything's"}, {"timestamp": [37.6, 40.68], "text": " going with the large language models that have been out,"}, {"timestamp": [40.68, 46.72], "text": " like the GTP, GPT, sorry, and of course, OpenARGPT,"}, {"timestamp": [46.72, 49.48], "text": " and there's a few other language models out as well"}, {"timestamp": [49.48, 51.8], "text": " that you can run on your own GPU."}, {"timestamp": [51.8, 55.68], "text": " And we've kind of found these projects,"}, {"timestamp": [55.68, 57.24], "text": " and one of these projects is called"}, {"timestamp": [57.24, 60.08], "text": " the Raven Project by David Shapiro,"}, {"timestamp": [60.08, 62.72], "text": " and it's an open source project,"}, {"timestamp": [62.72, 64.64], "text": " and his mission is,"}, {"timestamp": [64.64, 68.08], "text": " Nath, do you mind if I talk about it? Yeah, no go for it."}, {"timestamp": [68.08, 74.96], "text": " His mission is to build, if AI is the future and see how far"}, {"timestamp": [74.96, 80.56], "text": " it's become in the last two years alone, then his mission is"}, {"timestamp": [80.56, 84.8], "text": " to build an AI that has three main objectives and that is"}, {"timestamp": [84.8, 87.04], "text": " to increase prosperity,"}, {"timestamp": [87.6, 93.76], "text": " increase understanding for the human race, increase prosperity. So prosperity, he mentions"}, {"timestamp": [93.76, 99.52], "text": " in one of his videos, that it's about, of course, it's not just about wealth or money, but it's"}, {"timestamp": [99.52, 105.0], "text": " about health, it's about all species on Earth, not just humans."}, {"timestamp": [105.0, 110.08], "text": " And then he also says that one of the main objectives"}, {"timestamp": [110.08, 113.92], "text": " of Raven Project is to reduce suffering as well."}, {"timestamp": [113.92, 115.64], "text": " So you kind of need all three."}, {"timestamp": [115.64, 119.08], "text": " And he talks about why they're called heuristics."}, {"timestamp": [119.08, 121.24], "text": " He talks about why if you just lean on one,"}, {"timestamp": [121.24, 123.92], "text": " then the other suffers, particularly"}, {"timestamp": [123.92, 126.4], "text": " in the context of AI learning."}, {"timestamp": [126.4, 130.8], "text": " So you have to use your bot, you have to train your bot,"}, {"timestamp": [130.8, 132.48], "text": " and then we are moving towards a world"}, {"timestamp": [132.48, 134.92], "text": " where that bot becomes autonomous in your life."}, {"timestamp": [136.32, 138.4], "text": " Then Nathan and I have our own perspectives"}, {"timestamp": [139.88, 141.14], "text": " on some of these things."}, {"timestamp": [142.04, 144.86], "text": " Me personally, I believe we're heading towards a world"}, {"timestamp": [144.86, 146.24], "text": " where we need to be kind of AI"}, {"timestamp": [146.24, 152.64], "text": " self-sufficient, meaning that we move away from all of our data going into the cloud to big corporations"}, {"timestamp": [153.2, 159.84], "text": " and into having our own AI assistant built into our home and then we can connect to it,"}, {"timestamp": [161.04, 164.88], "text": " built into our home or computer or something like that, and we can connect to it wherever we are"}, {"timestamp": [163.32, 167.96], "text": " built into our home or computer or something like that. And we can connect to it wherever we are via our mobile devices."}, {"timestamp": [167.96, 169.96], "text": " And I think this is going to be really cool."}, {"timestamp": [169.96, 175.32], "text": " And Raven is a project that's sort of targeted towards that kind of view."}, {"timestamp": [175.32, 180.6], "text": " I think they are thinking about launching a larger cloud-based version."}, {"timestamp": [180.6, 188.96], "text": " But I know Nathan and I are interested in having a version locally hosted so we can"}, {"timestamp": [188.96, 196.88], "text": " firewall our data, firewall our conversations with the OpenAI Assistant. I should mention"}, {"timestamp": [196.88, 204.0], "text": " too there's other projects as well out there. There's openassistant.org, openassistant.io,"}, {"timestamp": [209.36, 218.24], "text": " openassistant.org, openassistant.io, but we are interested quite a lot on this video. We'll focus on Raven, because it seems to be, at least from a content perspective, he has... It's doing some"}, {"timestamp": [218.24, 222.8], "text": " very interesting things, I think. Doing some very interesting things, yeah. So, I've been watching a"}, {"timestamp": [222.8, 225.36], "text": " few of his YouTube videos, and I'd"}, {"timestamp": [225.36, 228.88], "text": " recommend anyone to go over and that's interested in this stuff to go and follow his channel."}, {"timestamp": [229.6, 232.8], "text": " He does do some longer live streams, but I really like the way he cuts."}, {"timestamp": [234.48, 237.44], "text": " Like, when he's doing some coding, he tries to make it accessible for people,"}, {"timestamp": [238.24, 247.28], "text": " and he's written a few books that I've pulled up here, likeony of Thought, Benevolent by Design, and Natural Language,"}, {"timestamp": [247.28, 253.28], "text": " Cognitive Architecture, which is really the one that he's kind of focusing on lately. I haven't"}, {"timestamp": [253.28, 258.72], "text": " read his book, so I've only been watching his YouTube, but just picking up the ideas that"}, {"timestamp": [258.72, 264.96], "text": " he brings across, it kind of makes sense. As a cognitive architecture, I think the way,"}, {"timestamp": [264.96, 265.44], "text": " from what he's saying, no one has really kind of been thinking about this, as a cognitive architecture, I think the way from what he's"}, {"timestamp": [265.44, 269.04], "text": " saying, no one has really kind of been thinking about this, and I think it's a really good"}, {"timestamp": [270.08, 277.76], "text": " framework for what GPT is. So GPT is like the calculator, but there's no machine around it"}, {"timestamp": [277.76, 286.4], "text": " currently. Like, yes, chat GPT has built a dialogue so you can go back and forth with it, but I feel like that's just the beginning"}, {"timestamp": [286.4, 293.36], "text": " of the applications, and so this idea of a cognitive architecture, I feel like, is kind"}, {"timestamp": [293.36, 303.6], "text": " of like the frameworks of tomorrow's GPT-based apps, and so some of the things that we're"}, {"timestamp": [303.6, 329.44], "text": " talking about here are giving GPT long-term memory, giving it goals, giving it the ability to pull up semantically similar memories from the past, so that even if the GPT algorithm, I think if you pull up like OpenAI's token counter, it lets you..."}, {"timestamp": [329.44, 331.84], "text": " 1096 tokens I think is the max."}, {"timestamp": [331.84, 339.68], "text": " Yeah, it'll let you have, it'll calculate a bunch of tokens, but there's a maximum number of tokens that it'll let you use."}, {"timestamp": [339.68, 347.88], "text": " And so if you can pull up, so when you're asking a question, if you can load the context with all the relevant information"}, {"timestamp": [347.88, 351.0], "text": " for that and the specific goals, it's"}, {"timestamp": [351.0, 355.76], "text": " going to do a much better job at performing that task."}, {"timestamp": [355.76, 357.56], "text": " And so I think that's kind of the future."}, {"timestamp": [357.56, 363.16], "text": " And I think exploring where David Shapiro is heading"}, {"timestamp": [363.16, 366.0], "text": " with that is really interesting."}, {"timestamp": [366.0, 368.0], "text": " His latest video, which I watched today,"}, {"timestamp": [368.0, 375.12], "text": " was on tying it in with a service called Pinecone."}, {"timestamp": [375.12, 384.44], "text": " So Pinecone is a vector database."}, {"timestamp": [384.44, 393.0], "text": " I haven't looked into it to a deep degree, but I understand it's what powers Facebook's semantic search or something to that effect."}, {"timestamp": [393.0, 405.52], "text": " Something similar to that. So it lets us pull up semantically. It's like a database for a semantically similar content. And so you can place your memories or your chat messages or whatever"}, {"timestamp": [405.52, 411.84], "text": " somewhere in this latent space, and then you can go and query similar memories. So, for example,"}, {"timestamp": [411.84, 421.52], "text": " if we wanted to build a, I mean, I think of myself largely the job that I do as a director,"}, {"timestamp": [422.08, 427.6], "text": " you know, is a glorified sort of information routing agent. I've got information coming from"}, {"timestamp": [427.6, 433.44], "text": " clients, from service providers, from different stakeholders, and I'm trying to make sure the"}, {"timestamp": [433.44, 438.88], "text": " information gets to the right person. And then I might be managing a bunch of projects at any one"}, {"timestamp": [438.88, 443.2], "text": " time. And so, managing the company, and then I'm managing all these individual projects,"}, {"timestamp": [443.48, 446.48], "text": " I'm managing the company and then I'm managing all these individual projects. The joys of running an agency."}, {"timestamp": [446.48, 451.48], "text": " And so, if I could have a system that assisted me with that,"}, {"timestamp": [451.48, 454.48], "text": " that knew when I'm working on project ABC,"}, {"timestamp": [454.48, 460.48], "text": " that these are the last 10 correspondents we've had from the client, from the development team,"}, {"timestamp": [460.48, 465.16], "text": " and then it was able to, if I said write a letter updating the client with the latest updates,"}, {"timestamp": [465.16, 466.78], "text": " it could just do that for me because it"}, {"timestamp": [466.78, 469.52], "text": " was contextually aware of everything that was going on."}, {"timestamp": [469.52, 471.52], "text": " Whereas I can get it to do that now,"}, {"timestamp": [471.52, 475.12], "text": " but I have to copy and paste from different places"}, {"timestamp": [475.12, 478.08], "text": " and manually load up the context."}, {"timestamp": [478.08, 480.68], "text": " And so I think by building, by using"}, {"timestamp": [480.68, 497.0], "text": " this kind of cognitive thinking machine, we can build a sort of system that can switch, well, it can have a longer context, but then also could switch context as well."}, {"timestamp": [497.0, 505.28], "text": " So it could have one job as a, it could have one set of goals as managing one project, and it could have another set of goals"}, {"timestamp": [505.28, 507.08], "text": " managing another project."}, {"timestamp": [507.08, 511.76], "text": " For example, if I considered my home life,"}, {"timestamp": [511.76, 515.4], "text": " a different project, or my relationships with people,"}, {"timestamp": [515.4, 517.68], "text": " a different project, with my wife, a different project,"}, {"timestamp": [517.68, 521.38], "text": " then the goal might be to maximize happiness."}, {"timestamp": [521.38, 524.0], "text": " Whereas at work, it might be to get the job done"}, {"timestamp": [524.0, 525.44], "text": " on time and on schedule."}, {"timestamp": [525.44, 526.96], "text": " So we could load it up with different goals."}, {"timestamp": [526.96, 530.92], "text": " And then when it's like in home Nathan role,"}, {"timestamp": [530.92, 534.0], "text": " it's giving me advice or helping full tips to be,"}, {"timestamp": [534.0, 536.22], "text": " you know, to make everything run smoothly at home."}, {"timestamp": [536.22, 540.4], "text": " Whereas if I'm at work and I'm trying to get things done,"}, {"timestamp": [540.4, 544.16], "text": " it would help me craft a list of tasks."}, {"timestamp": [544.16, 545.68], "text": " I could ask it, let me know anything that you need"}, {"timestamp": [545.68, 550.08], "text": " to, I need to worry about today, and it would take the recent messages from the team and"}, {"timestamp": [550.96, 555.76], "text": " pipe that together. So yeah, does that kind of give a bit of an overview?"}, {"timestamp": [556.32, 562.48], "text": " Yeah, I think so. I think that's what's kind of missing now from the chat GPT, that, I mean,"}, {"timestamp": [562.48, 570.84], "text": " it's come so far so quickly, so it's only a matter of time, particularly with projects like Raven. But having that long-term memory is so important"}, {"timestamp": [570.84, 576.92], "text": " in terms of it being a life assistant. So imagine if at home you had a life assistant"}, {"timestamp": [576.92, 587.72], "text": " who was walled off to the outside world to a degree in terms of sharing any personal data, but could actually"}, {"timestamp": [587.72, 593.12], "text": " benefit like it goes through your messages, it goes through your emails, it has context"}, {"timestamp": [593.12, 600.84], "text": " on a daily basis on all of these things to enable you to seamlessly get it to do work"}, {"timestamp": [600.84, 601.84], "text": " for you essentially."}, {"timestamp": [601.84, 605.04], "text": " And you can train it to do specific work tasks."}, {"timestamp": [605.04, 608.0], "text": " It's like your work from home assistant,"}, {"timestamp": [608.0, 610.4], "text": " as well as your general life assistance"}, {"timestamp": [610.4, 613.68], "text": " with appointments and bookings and all that kind of stuff."}, {"timestamp": [613.68, 615.2], "text": " And the other thing is, of course,"}, {"timestamp": [615.2, 617.08], "text": " long-term memory is a big thing."}, {"timestamp": [617.08, 620.8], "text": " And then the next thing would be integration"}, {"timestamp": [620.8, 623.88], "text": " with third-party services and things like that,"}, {"timestamp": [623.88, 625.52], "text": " like calendars, emails,"}, {"timestamp": [627.12, 634.16], "text": " maybe making orders and purchases, perhaps sending emails, text messages,"}, {"timestamp": [636.08, 641.76], "text": " any number of things. Maybe you can interface it. I don't really know where the research has gone"}, {"timestamp": [641.76, 645.56], "text": " with this yet, but interfacing it with APIs, third-party APIs to"}, {"timestamp": [646.0, 649.72], "text": " do any kind of custom functions, maybe interfacing it with your own"}, {"timestamp": [651.68, 658.28], "text": " commands or custom commands that you've created to perform a certain action, and you can train it to do that action."}, {"timestamp": [658.96, 666.84], "text": " I think there'll be like this, I can see like there's going to be like there's the Zapiers of now."}, {"timestamp": [666.84, 669.4], "text": " Imagine a Zapier that does context injection"}, {"timestamp": [669.4, 671.04], "text": " into GPT prompts."}, {"timestamp": [671.04, 673.08], "text": " I don't know how exactly what form it takes,"}, {"timestamp": [673.08, 677.16], "text": " but it's like all this data about me is everywhere."}, {"timestamp": [677.16, 681.68], "text": " How can I take OpenAI and then pipe into it"}, {"timestamp": [681.68, 683.52], "text": " like contextually relevant information?"}, {"timestamp": [683.52, 687.44], "text": " So when I'm like write an email to so-and-so"}, {"timestamp": [687.44, 691.9], "text": " it pulls up the last X emails to so-and-so as context"}, {"timestamp": [691.9, 694.24], "text": " or some kind of application like that."}, {"timestamp": [695.12, 699.68], "text": " So yeah, that's kind of a couple of little things like that"}, {"timestamp": [699.68, 704.58], "text": " to help me with, I have an issue with saved messages"}, {"timestamp": [704.58, 706.8], "text": " on Slack, I love to save them and then have like a"}, {"timestamp": [706.8, 711.92], "text": " list that I'm going to go through later and reply to. However, I found that over time I don't always"}, {"timestamp": [711.92, 717.68], "text": " get back to my saved messages. So I built a little bot that I can run in the terminal and it'll just"}, {"timestamp": [717.68, 725.84], "text": " go through my saved messages and generate different replies to the messages. I've been through a couple of iterations with this"}, {"timestamp": [731.44, 737.36], "text": " with my team and got some feedback. At first, the responses were really like the chat GPT ones, really verbose and long, and people were just like, well, a text. The next"}, {"timestamp": [737.36, 743.6], "text": " slot, I made it shorter and I made it suggest different alternatives, like a short"}, {"timestamp": [743.6, 746.12], "text": " version, another version, whatever."}, {"timestamp": [746.12, 748.36], "text": " And then people complained it wasn't taking,"}, {"timestamp": [748.36, 749.76], "text": " it wasn't using my tone of voice."}, {"timestamp": [749.76, 752.24], "text": " So then I used like two-shot learning"}, {"timestamp": [752.24, 754.04], "text": " to load it with a couple of conversations"}, {"timestamp": [754.04, 755.84], "text": " of how I typically respond to stuff."}, {"timestamp": [757.24, 759.56], "text": " And then it started to respond more like me."}, {"timestamp": [759.56, 761.88], "text": " But then I realized it was still a chat bot,"}, {"timestamp": [761.88, 763.84], "text": " it was still trying to keep the conversation going."}, {"timestamp": [763.84, 766.24], "text": " And really as a manager or director, you was still trying to keep the conversation going and really, as a"}, {"timestamp": [770.8, 776.64], "text": " manager or a director, you don't want to have a long conversation with someone on Slack. You want to give them the answer or the direction and get them to move on the task. So, yeah,"}, {"timestamp": [776.64, 788.5], "text": " it's interesting. But, so, yeah, I think maybe we can dive in here and have a look through the code base as a starting point."}, {"timestamp": [788.5, 799.7], "text": " I should mention that Dave has a YouTube channel and he's got a fundraising goal to get his core living costs covered"}, {"timestamp": [799.7, 801.3], "text": " and then he's going to turn off ads."}, {"timestamp": [801.3, 806.4], "text": " So if anyone wants to jump across and support him, I think it's on Patreon or something like that,"}, {"timestamp": [806.4, 807.9], "text": " that would be well worth supporting,"}, {"timestamp": [807.9, 810.36], "text": " because he has more time to work on this project."}, {"timestamp": [810.36, 811.68], "text": " I think that would be awesome."}, {"timestamp": [811.68, 813.96], "text": " He said he is doing it full time now as well,"}, {"timestamp": [813.96, 818.28], "text": " and is looking for a technical team as well,"}, {"timestamp": [818.28, 821.72], "text": " people with experience from everything from psychology"}, {"timestamp": [821.72, 826.24], "text": " all the way to mobile apps and DevOps."}, {"timestamp": [826.24, 827.92], "text": " Yeah."}, {"timestamp": [827.92, 830.72], "text": " Yeah, so I've got my team kind of working"}, {"timestamp": [830.72, 832.6], "text": " on some aspects of this."}, {"timestamp": [832.6, 836.08], "text": " Like at the moment, I would love to see my team run"}, {"timestamp": [836.08, 839.96], "text": " with this project and get it running up and running locally."}, {"timestamp": [839.96, 841.52], "text": " So I've got them just sort of tracking"}, {"timestamp": [841.52, 843.0], "text": " some of the concepts at the moment"}, {"timestamp": [843.0, 844.76], "text": " because I think they're new."}, {"timestamp": [844.76, 848.32], "text": " But I think this, I've just dived into the Raven project"}, {"timestamp": [848.32, 848.82], "text": " here."}, {"timestamp": [851.36, 857.56], "text": " Now, I think he has mentioned that he is having an,"}, {"timestamp": [857.56, 860.1], "text": " I mean, he did have one project for himself"}, {"timestamp": [860.1, 862.2], "text": " where he was like, don't open pull requests."}, {"timestamp": [862.2, 864.68], "text": " He's just going to close them all."}, {"timestamp": [864.68, 868.88], "text": " And I'm not sure if this is the project,"}, {"timestamp": [868.88, 871.0], "text": " but he did set up a sec, I thought"}, {"timestamp": [871.0, 875.0], "text": " it was a second project to cover the community effort"}, {"timestamp": [875.0, 876.92], "text": " so that he could have a space, I guess,"}, {"timestamp": [876.92, 879.2], "text": " essentially for him to hack away on stuff,"}, {"timestamp": [879.2, 883.88], "text": " and then another one for people to."}, {"timestamp": [883.88, 886.4], "text": " Do you want to share your screen?"}, {"timestamp": [886.4, 892.56], "text": " Oh yeah, sorry. You push the button to... Yeah, let's do that. Let's see if this works."}, {"timestamp": [892.56, 897.52], "text": " Okay. There we go. Sorry, I thought this was up while we were going through it."}, {"timestamp": [897.52, 902.48], "text": " So yeah, these are the recent projects. This is the one he's obviously been"}, {"timestamp": [902.48, 905.36], "text": " most active on, and then there's"}, {"timestamp": [905.36, 910.88], "text": " a couple of other ones. So I think this idea of recursive summarization, so if you know your"}, {"timestamp": [910.88, 918.48], "text": " prompt can only fit 8,000 tokens in, then you can recursively summarize it. So every time you"}, {"timestamp": [919.68, 926.72], "text": " have a conversation, it summarizes it to make sure it fits in those 8000 tokens. Eventually, of course,"}, {"timestamp": [926.72, 931.92], "text": " you're going to compress the information and lose the detail. And the analogy he makes is that's"}, {"timestamp": [931.92, 937.68], "text": " kind of what our brains do anyway. If you were asked what you did yesterday, what you had for"}, {"timestamp": [937.68, 943.12], "text": " breakfast, you don't really know. You just know you had breakfast, then you did your teeth or"}, {"timestamp": [943.12, 950.08], "text": " whatever, but all the details, unless there's something... Yeah, you might say one word which could be eggs or something like"}, {"timestamp": [950.08, 954.24], "text": " that, but really that was like a five to ten minute chunk of your life and a lot of stuff"}, {"timestamp": [954.24, 958.8], "text": " happened in that time. Exactly, yeah. So, I think that's an interesting concept that"}, {"timestamp": [959.6, 967.2], "text": " folds into it. Long-term chat with external sources. So, I don't know exactly, but these are sort of"}, {"timestamp": [967.2, 976.32], "text": " related to some of the YouTube videos he's done. A lot of the work he's done, it's just"}, {"timestamp": [976.32, 980.8], "text": " saving the files out to a JSON file locally or something like that, so you can see the"}, {"timestamp": [980.8, 990.56], "text": " logs here. So, he's not even tying it. If you scroll down in his repo a little bit, the YouTube chapter generator, I literally wrote one"}, {"timestamp": [990.56, 996.4], "text": " last night. So I've compared my method to his method, and it's a bit different, but it"}, {"timestamp": [997.44, 1003.44], "text": " sort of achieves the same goal. Yeah, it's kind of fun looking around in people's codebases."}, {"timestamp": [1004.48, 1006.08], "text": " So anyone that's getting into development, I think it's kind of fun looking around in people's code bases. So anyone that's getting into"}, {"timestamp": [1006.08, 1012.72], "text": " development, I think it's a really great way to start out. Also, because particularly"}, {"timestamp": [1012.72, 1018.64], "text": " with Python, the code is so readable, you can dive really right into it. And so, for example,"}, {"timestamp": [1018.64, 1025.8], "text": " if we are even not sure about what something is doing, we can dive in here to the, is there some code in here?"}, {"timestamp": [1025.8, 1028.72], "text": " There is no code in here."}, {"timestamp": [1028.72, 1030.88], "text": " Let's see what is done here."}, {"timestamp": [1030.88, 1033.16], "text": " I think these are all, these look like placeholder files."}, {"timestamp": [1033.16, 1034.44], "text": " Do we have another branch here?"}, {"timestamp": [1034.44, 1036.04], "text": " Yeah, let's have a look at this branch."}, {"timestamp": [1039.64, 1047.96], "text": " OK, so it seems like I'm not exactly sure where the... Here we go, we have some code here."}, {"timestamp": [1047.96, 1050.76], "text": " So if we're not sure what exactly this is doing,"}, {"timestamp": [1050.76, 1055.36], "text": " we can always just grab this for non-technical guys out there."}, {"timestamp": [1055.36, 1059.88], "text": " And we can just say, can you explain"}, {"timestamp": [1059.88, 1065.0], "text": " what this is doing at a ever year old level."}, {"timestamp": [1071.64, 1073.56], "text": " This code is creating a program that receives requests"}, {"timestamp": [1073.56, 1075.52], "text": " from other programs over the internet."}, {"timestamp": [1075.52, 1078.36], "text": " The program is built using a package called fastAPI,"}, {"timestamp": [1078.36, 1080.52], "text": " which helps it connect to incoming requests."}, {"timestamp": [1080.52, 1082.08], "text": " The code is also using uvunicorn,"}, {"timestamp": [1082.08, 1084.36], "text": " which helps it to reprogram and listen to incoming requests."}, {"timestamp": [1084.36, 1087.76], "text": " So you can pause that and read that if you want, but this will give you a good understanding in"}, {"timestamp": [1087.76, 1096.8], "text": " text format of what it's doing if you are not sure. So yeah, so I think the interesting thing"}, {"timestamp": [1096.8, 1102.64], "text": " about this microservices is it's kind of got an inner loop, which I think is the one that's"}, {"timestamp": [1102.64, 1107.56], "text": " handling the information as it's coming in, an outer loop, which works on a slightly longer"}, {"timestamp": [1107.56, 1110.14], "text": " timeline, and then a dream sequence, which"}, {"timestamp": [1110.14, 1113.08], "text": " happens offline."}, {"timestamp": [1113.08, 1115.5], "text": " I think this can be modeled like you've got"}, {"timestamp": [1115.5, 1118.48], "text": " an inner dialogue in your mind, and you've"}, {"timestamp": [1118.48, 1120.6], "text": " got your outer loop, which is how you're interacting"}, {"timestamp": [1120.6, 1122.14], "text": " with the environment, and then you've"}, {"timestamp": [1122.14, 1124.96], "text": " got a dream sequence, which sort of compresses memories"}, {"timestamp": [1124.96, 1130.24], "text": " and does stuff to them. And so that, I think, is the architecture. I'm probably"}, {"timestamp": [1130.24, 1135.84], "text": " bastardizing this, I'm sorry, David, if you're watching this, but that's, I think, the idea that's"}, {"timestamp": [1135.84, 1141.52], "text": " interesting. So I'm not sure if we can actually... And I did like the concept that he's got it"}, {"timestamp": [1141.52, 1146.16], "text": " set up as micro services. He explained that in one of his videos, too,"}, {"timestamp": [1146.16, 1149.08], "text": " which means that as the team grows,"}, {"timestamp": [1149.08, 1151.72], "text": " people can work on, can be whole teams"}, {"timestamp": [1151.72, 1154.8], "text": " on just those components, as opposed to having"}, {"timestamp": [1154.8, 1158.14], "text": " some of my projects that are sort of deeply integrated,"}, {"timestamp": [1158.14, 1160.64], "text": " like all of the different components"}, {"timestamp": [1160.64, 1163.16], "text": " are quite deeply integrated with each other"}, {"timestamp": [1163.16, 1164.82], "text": " and it's difficult to separate them."}, {"timestamp": [1164.82, 1172.32], "text": " Of course, you can do it with separate functions and classes, but just the way he's built this"}, {"timestamp": [1172.32, 1181.92], "text": " whole repository, he's put a lot of deep thought into. Yeah, did we want to get to the point of"}, {"timestamp": [1182.48, 1188.0], "text": " trying to run it? I don't know if there's much to run at the moment."}, {"timestamp": [1188.0, 1192.0], "text": " Yeah, I was looking at this. It does say"}, {"timestamp": [1192.0, 1196.0], "text": " if we can go to the bottom, it does say you can check it out"}, {"timestamp": [1196.0, 1200.0], "text": " and then you can create a virtual environment, activate a virtual environment"}, {"timestamp": [1200.0, 1204.0], "text": " according to some instructions, but I'm not sure"}, {"timestamp": [1204.0, 1207.76], "text": " what to do past that point."}, {"timestamp": [1207.76, 1211.92], "text": " Yeah, so what is the environment file? Is it using"}, {"timestamp": [1211.92, 1215.52], "text": " Conda? Mostly, yeah, Torch and TensorFlow"}, {"timestamp": [1215.52, 1222.16], "text": " installed. Yeah, I'm not super... I've played with Conda a little"}, {"timestamp": [1222.16, 1226.48], "text": " bit lately, but not a great deal. So yeah, I guess we can give it a go."}, {"timestamp": [1226.48, 1230.16], "text": " You don't have to, it's all good. Just thought I would."}, {"timestamp": [1230.16, 1236.08], "text": " Yeah, we can... I don't know, you'll have to talk so people don't get bored watching me."}, {"timestamp": [1236.08, 1241.6], "text": " Yeah. But yeah, we can have a crack at it."}, {"timestamp": [1241.6, 1246.8], "text": " Let me change over to... So I can't guarantee that we're going to get this working."}, {"timestamp": [1246.8, 1252.32], "text": " We might do another video or follow-up video with it working in the future."}, {"timestamp": [1252.32, 1254.18], "text": " But it is quite interesting."}, {"timestamp": [1254.18, 1261.84], "text": " There are some demo videos of David running it online."}, {"timestamp": [1261.84, 1271.0], "text": " We would like to contribute to those demo videos so people can find information about Raven through our videos as well, and they can get involved."}, {"timestamp": [1271.0, 1286.2], "text": " I do think having a community-based project like this is going to be really important for us to have data sovereignty of our own data and how we communicate."}, {"timestamp": [1286.2, 1288.16], "text": " Imagine all the data that gets recorded."}, {"timestamp": [1288.16, 1293.88], "text": " I mean, think of the amount of data that chat GPT has now,"}, {"timestamp": [1293.88, 1297.04], "text": " if you've been using it as much as we have."}, {"timestamp": [1297.04, 1301.84], "text": " And they say explicitly not to share personal information"}, {"timestamp": [1301.84, 1308.32], "text": " to chat GPT, because it could be reviewed by someone who's training and improving the model."}, {"timestamp": [1308.32, 1319.32], "text": " So it's important to, I think that the future of this is that there could just be this mountain of personal information"}, {"timestamp": [1319.32, 1327.82], "text": " because you're in a conversation, right're you're treating it like another person so it in a way you're more likely to give out"}, {"timestamp": [1329.58, 1332.52], "text": " Details about your personal life and and whatnot"}, {"timestamp": [1333.8, 1340.72], "text": " How you operate what even just the commands you're entering is is is enough for an algorithm to predict things about you"}, {"timestamp": [1341.4, 1344.56], "text": " So it's this is why I think having a walled"}, {"timestamp": [1347.04, 1348.96], "text": " local environment would be,"}, {"timestamp": [1357.12, 1357.68], "text": " would be really important to running this. And so no doubt right now the large companies are"}, {"timestamp": [1368.0, 1373.0], "text": " putting together improvements to existing chat engines which have these large language models in place to ultimately collect a lot of data because they generate revenue by selling your data to advertisers"}, {"timestamp": [1373.0, 1386.56], "text": " and being able to deliver personalized ads and whatnot across their platforms, and that's how they make money. So what I'm suggesting is that if you're watching this,"}, {"timestamp": [1386.56, 1390.28], "text": " you do happen to be spending a little time on the web,"}, {"timestamp": [1390.28, 1392.96], "text": " and you come across, miraculously, our videos"}, {"timestamp": [1392.96, 1395.74], "text": " and listening to us talking now,"}, {"timestamp": [1395.74, 1398.2], "text": " to think about what the future of"}, {"timestamp": [1400.0, 1403.16], "text": " your data in an AI world would look like."}, {"timestamp": [1404.48, 1406.16], "text": " I mean, already we know that"}, {"timestamp": [1406.16, 1410.22], "text": " if you're using a cloud-based platform for free,"}, {"timestamp": [1410.22, 1411.36], "text": " you are the product."}, {"timestamp": [1412.96, 1414.96], "text": " So our goal is to,"}, {"timestamp": [1414.96, 1417.84], "text": " with, we know that AI is coming,"}, {"timestamp": [1417.84, 1420.2], "text": " it's gonna be a big part of our life a lot more."}, {"timestamp": [1420.2, 1424.76], "text": " I mean, by 2025, 2028, 2030,"}, {"timestamp": [1424.76, 1430.08], "text": " who knows what level this is going to be at. But it would be"}, {"timestamp": [1431.28, 1439.36], "text": " good to maintain personal data sovereignty by understanding some of these projects in the early"}, {"timestamp": [1439.36, 1446.76], "text": " stage before it happens. So if there's this brand new AI that's released,"}, {"timestamp": [1446.76, 1448.52], "text": " AI assistant for your home released"}, {"timestamp": [1448.52, 1452.12], "text": " that is connected to the, excuse me,"}, {"timestamp": [1452.12, 1456.12], "text": " connected to a cloud on a large global network,"}, {"timestamp": [1458.66, 1462.14], "text": " then yeah, I mean, a lot of these large organizations"}, {"timestamp": [1462.14, 1467.12], "text": " have openly said that privacy is like the final frontier"}, {"timestamp": [1467.12, 1478.32], "text": " that they have to conquer to have full access and control. So it's no, yeah, that's no secret."}, {"timestamp": [1479.12, 1485.32], "text": " So the question is what can we do about it in this world where technology and AI is increasing"}, {"timestamp": [1485.32, 1486.32], "text": " significantly?"}, {"timestamp": [1486.32, 1491.86], "text": " And this is our kind of thinking around that is to how can we build these AI assistants"}, {"timestamp": [1491.86, 1499.64], "text": " into our own lives before we get invaded and forced to use other outside cloud-based ones."}, {"timestamp": [1499.64, 1508.0], "text": " So just keep that in mind. That may be investing in a decent computer with a GPU for your own home"}, {"timestamp": [1508.0, 1512.0], "text": " and learning how to do a bit of programming."}, {"timestamp": [1512.0, 1515.0], "text": " So, yeah."}, {"timestamp": [1515.0, 1520.0], "text": " I'm trying to run through doing this now and I can't create the environment."}, {"timestamp": [1520.0, 1525.68], "text": " I'm not sure exactly what I'm doing wrong. I happen pretty new to Conda,"}, {"timestamp": [1531.52, 1535.52], "text": " so what I'm doing here is I'm just going back and forwards between Conda and GPT to try and"}, {"timestamp": [1539.84, 1549.96], "text": " maybe it will help people. Have you had much experience with it? Only in Only recently I was trying to get some torch and tensorflow stuff working"}, {"timestamp": [1551.32, 1553.32], "text": " On I believe it was"}, {"timestamp": [1554.52, 1556.24], "text": " Colab"}, {"timestamp": [1556.24, 1560.76], "text": " But then I also did run it locally as well because torch"}, {"timestamp": [1561.48, 1564.2], "text": " Sort of seemed to run a little bit more"}, {"timestamp": [1567.36, 1575.12], "text": " Torch sort of seemed to run a little bit more, it was a bit more compatible on Mac through a Condor environment as opposed to a Pip environment. Yeah, I'm used to Pip. I mean, a Python developer,"}, {"timestamp": [1575.12, 1581.52], "text": " in case anyone doesn't know, for, I don't know, the better part of 10 years, when I stopped working"}, {"timestamp": [1581.52, 1587.68], "text": " as a hardware engineer, I decided to set up a company and I looked at the"}, {"timestamp": [1587.68, 1592.0], "text": " different languages that I wanted to invest my time in learning, and I picked Python"}, {"timestamp": [1592.64, 1596.08], "text": " 10 or so years ago because it was a nice readable language and I could see that it was"}, {"timestamp": [1596.08, 1600.72], "text": " maintainable. So, first, I could go and learn from other people more"}, {"timestamp": [1600.72, 1611.44], "text": " quickly because I could go and read code on GitHub.ub. And so in those days, we were using just pip, creating environments manually,"}, {"timestamp": [1611.44, 1615.36], "text": " and then condas come around to simplify because you need so many machine learning"}, {"timestamp": [1616.16, 1619.28], "text": " kind of dependencies to get stuff doing it. The data scientists guys don't want to"}, {"timestamp": [1619.92, 1623.6], "text": " spend all their time setting up stuff. So that's kind of"}, {"timestamp": [1621.58, 1626.38], "text": " spend all their time setting up stuff. So yeah, so that's kind of up in there."}, {"timestamp": [1626.38, 1629.06], "text": " So I've tried running condor update,"}, {"timestamp": [1629.06, 1633.02], "text": " but I'm still getting this packages not found stuff here."}, {"timestamp": [1633.02, 1635.14], "text": " So I don't know if you're going to have it."}, {"timestamp": [1635.14, 1636.86], "text": " I might be able to."}, {"timestamp": [1636.86, 1637.82], "text": " Yeah, sure."}, {"timestamp": [1637.82, 1638.46], "text": " Can't see it."}, {"timestamp": [1644.26, 1647.96], "text": " So I'm going from the instructions on the page."}, {"timestamp": [1647.96, 1649.04], "text": " I'm in the code."}, {"timestamp": [1649.04, 1651.68], "text": " I've checked out the right branch."}, {"timestamp": [1651.68, 1653.46], "text": " It just says to create a Python environment"}, {"timestamp": [1653.46, 1654.46], "text": " with your tools of choice."}, {"timestamp": [1658.24, 1662.32], "text": " And then all these files that it's giving errors on, they are."}, {"timestamp": [1669.18, 1681.26], "text": " Do you have any of those tools like installed like with brew or anything like that? I guess you have... I'm not using a Mac so... Yeah. I guess"}, {"timestamp": [1681.26, 1686.0], "text": " maybe he is using a Mac. Let me have a quick look at any issues here."}, {"timestamp": [1686.0, 1689.0], "text": " Communication plan,"}, {"timestamp": [1689.0, 1693.0], "text": " responsibilities, branching strategy."}, {"timestamp": [1700.0, 1703.0], "text": " Yeah, it would be great to, even if we can't in this video,"}, {"timestamp": [1703.0, 1707.76], "text": " next video we'll get one up and"}, {"timestamp": [1707.76, 1716.6], "text": " running hopefully, and maybe we'll try and see what it's capable of."}, {"timestamp": [1716.6, 1719.0], "text": " That'd be fun."}, {"timestamp": [1719.0, 1721.92], "text": " Fun little live video interacting with it."}, {"timestamp": [1721.92, 1728.0], "text": " I think he's got voice working as well."}, {"timestamp": [1728.88, 1734.56], "text": " Yeah, for an older video, so about seven months ago, he had voice working with the Google"}, {"timestamp": [1736.72, 1743.36], "text": " text-to-speech. You could choose it to be sort of a masculine voice or a feminine voice."}, {"timestamp": [1745.28, 1746.92], "text": " you could choose it to be sort of a masculine voice or a feminine voice."}, {"timestamp": [1753.32, 1757.48], "text": " So I'm just diving into the conda documentation to create an environment from a YAML file. I remember last time I was asking chat GPT, I think it was"}, {"timestamp": [1757.48, 1760.88], "text": " giving me the orders incorrectly."}, {"timestamp": [1763.76, 1768.0], "text": " The first line of the YAML file selects its name or specifies its name."}, {"timestamp": [1768.0, 1769.0], "text": " So let's try..."}, {"timestamp": [1769.0, 1780.0], "text": " So it's got a name already, Raven."}, {"timestamp": [1780.0, 1782.0], "text": " So, PonderEnvironmentList."}, {"timestamp": [1782.0, 1788.0], "text": " Doesn't seem to work. So, Conda environment list."}, {"timestamp": [1789.6, 1792.88], "text": " Doesn't seem to have created it as of yet."}, {"timestamp": [1792.88, 1802.48], "text": " Yeah. Cool. Well, even if that doesn't"}, {"timestamp": [1802.48, 1812.14], "text": " work, we can continue the discussion about how we would use these"}, {"timestamp": [1812.14, 1813.66], "text": " chat things on a daily basis."}, {"timestamp": [1813.66, 1822.22], "text": " I think we're already rapidly learning how useful a large language model is in our daily"}, {"timestamp": [1822.22, 1828.28], "text": " lives. You know, some people are fearful of it because it can do so much"}, {"timestamp": [1828.28, 1837.0], "text": " and does replace a lot of, potentially a lot of roles, but at the same time it also makes"}, {"timestamp": [1837.0, 1847.84], "text": " people way more efficient. So it's kind of a challenge, but of course the best thing to do is to adapt and make yourself"}, {"timestamp": [1851.52, 1856.96], "text": " make yourself knowledgeable of this technology. So if you're looking for a job,"}, {"timestamp": [1856.96, 1862.24], "text": " you're a more likely candidate. You haven't got your head in the sand, so to speak."}, {"timestamp": [1862.44, 1865.32], "text": " haven't got your head in the sand, so to speak."}, {"timestamp": [1870.44, 1873.88], "text": " But what I've found is that there's more and more uses that I'm discovering every day what I can use it for."}, {"timestamp": [1873.88, 1877.52], "text": " And sometimes when I feel blocked, a lot of the times"}, {"timestamp": [1877.52, 1882.6], "text": " I can get unblocked quite quickly with chat GPT."}, {"timestamp": [1882.6, 1891.18], "text": " And not all the time. I mean there's there's definitely some code that I've written with chat GPT which is wrong"}, {"timestamp": [1891.56, 1897.2], "text": " And and it doesn't always get it right, but it it gets me 80% of the way there"}, {"timestamp": [1898.12, 1902.72], "text": " And I know I've probably mentioned that in other videos, but that's probably what I've lacked a lot about it"}, {"timestamp": [1902.72, 1914.24], "text": " There's some tasks that I've tried to get to do which are really difficult. I'll give you one example of that task. So say you've got"}, {"timestamp": [1914.24, 1928.0], "text": " an image that you're using for private use and it's got a watermark on it, it's very difficult to remove watermarks on images, which is great."}, {"timestamp": [1928.0, 1932.08], "text": " I mean, that's great for the copyright owner, of course."}, {"timestamp": [1932.08, 1938.32], "text": " But there's other reasons why you might want to remove watermarks, which is just for private"}, {"timestamp": [1938.32, 1949.0], "text": " use like training, putting it on a personal card to give to someone or sending it to someone digitally or something like that."}, {"timestamp": [1949.0, 1967.0], "text": " But of course these days you don't really need to because you've got the text-to-image AI that you can access like Midjourney, Dali and stuff like. And they're only getting better as well. But there's limitations, of course,"}, {"timestamp": [1967.0, 1969.56], "text": " not just on the code that it writes,"}, {"timestamp": [1969.56, 1972.32], "text": " but there's physical limitations on our technology"}, {"timestamp": [1972.32, 1976.68], "text": " and our understanding of how to process things."}, {"timestamp": [1977.92, 1979.92], "text": " And of course, this is,"}, {"timestamp": [1979.92, 1982.48], "text": " large language models trained on our understanding of that."}, {"timestamp": [1982.48, 1985.12], "text": " So if you're asking it something that"}, {"timestamp": [1985.12, 1991.6], "text": " is reaching the understanding of humans, then it's, yeah, it's not going to do a great job in general."}, {"timestamp": [1993.6, 1994.96], "text": " The other thing was,"}, {"timestamp": [1998.72, 2011.28], "text": " yeah, I mean, chat GPT is great in terms of getting 80% of the way there, but then often to get the next 20% requires, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [2011.88, 2015.44], "text": " programming knowledge, if it's a program based thing, or"}, {"timestamp": [2017.26, 2019.68], "text": " integrating, say integrating with third party API's that"}, {"timestamp": [2019.68, 2024.64], "text": " doesn't have knowledge of or things like that. So yeah, I"}, {"timestamp": [2024.64, 2026.8], "text": " think we're all we're only just on the cusp of"}, {"timestamp": [2026.8, 2034.96], "text": " understanding. Doing my happy dance. Cool. I got the requirements installing. I think he's"}, {"timestamp": [2034.96, 2041.52], "text": " like hard-coded all these versions that are probably specific to his environment, which is"}, {"timestamp": [2041.52, 2049.0], "text": " fine because he said it's a project for himself. But if it's going to be open source, we'll probably need to figure that out because they don't seem to work on Ubuntu."}, {"timestamp": [2049.0, 2057.0], "text": " So I just commented out a lot of the versions that were giving errors and we're installing the latest version of them, I guess. We'll see if it works."}, {"timestamp": [2057.0, 2059.0], "text": " But yeah."}, {"timestamp": [2059.0, 2061.0], "text": " Yep, sounds good."}, {"timestamp": [2061.0, 2065.28], "text": " Might take a while for all we know,"}, {"timestamp": [2065.28, 2068.0], "text": " because I think Transformers is quite big."}, {"timestamp": [2068.0, 2069.44], "text": " Right, yeah, I'm not sure."}, {"timestamp": [2069.44, 2071.24], "text": " It does seem to be installing quite a few,"}, {"timestamp": [2071.24, 2075.48], "text": " but I'm sure it probably won't work on this live demo."}, {"timestamp": [2075.48, 2077.48], "text": " We'll see how it goes."}, {"timestamp": [2077.48, 2078.72], "text": " We hope it fails."}, {"timestamp": [2078.72, 2079.8], "text": " Yeah."}, {"timestamp": [2079.8, 2080.64], "text": " TensorFlow Intel."}, {"timestamp": [2084.08, 2086.3], "text": " Yeah, so I think that probably this project isn't"}, {"timestamp": [2086.3, 2090.24], "text": " ready for primetime YouTube live streams."}, {"timestamp": [2090.24, 2094.0], "text": " But yeah, I'll just keep plotting away"}, {"timestamp": [2094.0, 2095.96], "text": " on the things here."}, {"timestamp": [2095.96, 2098.68], "text": " Yeah."}, {"timestamp": [2098.68, 2099.48], "text": " Yeah, all good."}, {"timestamp": [2099.48, 2101.26], "text": " I think it's probably just good for people"}, {"timestamp": [2101.26, 2106.04], "text": " to see that there's projects out there that gives them options. I mean, we're not, not"}, {"timestamp": [2106.04, 2116.56], "text": " going to be reliant on, you know, like the other choice for a lot of non-tech people is to just go with whatever the big"}, {"timestamp": [2116.56, 2125.8], "text": " tech companies have or, or go without. And a lot of the times going without will probably forfeit you from other things in"}, {"timestamp": [2125.8, 2130.68], "text": " society depending on where society is going."}, {"timestamp": [2130.68, 2138.68], "text": " So yeah, at least this is kind of another option if you're willing to just become a"}, {"timestamp": [2138.68, 2143.28], "text": " little bit techie to learn some of these things."}, {"timestamp": [2143.28, 2146.56], "text": " Of course, it's such early days, so keep your finger on the pulse."}, {"timestamp": [2148.0, 2156.32], "text": " And yeah, subscribe to our channel and we'll keep you updated on any new advancements that come out"}, {"timestamp": [2156.32, 2167.04], "text": " in this space. And yeah, I just encourage you to think about what potentially"}, {"timestamp": [2167.04, 2170.36], "text": " could be happening in the next couple of years,"}, {"timestamp": [2170.36, 2175.72], "text": " having an assistant which knows a lot about you"}, {"timestamp": [2175.72, 2180.68], "text": " and can help you immensely."}, {"timestamp": [2180.68, 2181.96], "text": " I've been thinking about it."}, {"timestamp": [2181.96, 2187.84], "text": " I actually, because I've got the YouTube Red subscription or whatever,"}, {"timestamp": [2187.84, 2189.84], "text": " and I go around listening to it."}, {"timestamp": [2189.84, 2192.88], "text": " But a lot of what it's playing is like,"}, {"timestamp": [2192.88, 2196.64], "text": " just, I don't know, like, yes, it's interesting, but it's not,"}, {"timestamp": [2196.64, 2200.24], "text": " it's not a most productive way of learning,"}, {"timestamp": [2200.24, 2202.24], "text": " because I'm listening passively to information."}, {"timestamp": [2202.24, 2208.6], "text": " And I'm thinking, like, there is an always on best friend"}, {"timestamp": [2208.6, 2211.52], "text": " that's maybe not a best friend, but someone"}, {"timestamp": [2211.52, 2213.72], "text": " that can have a stimulating conversation with,"}, {"timestamp": [2213.72, 2216.48], "text": " that I can go through life just chatting,"}, {"timestamp": [2216.48, 2219.28], "text": " or it would help me."}, {"timestamp": [2219.28, 2221.4], "text": " I think because of the way neurons work,"}, {"timestamp": [2221.4, 2224.68], "text": " if I could have a back and forth conversation,"}, {"timestamp": [2224.68, 2228.88], "text": " it would probably help the brain rewire itself"}, {"timestamp": [2228.88, 2230.08], "text": " quicker."}, {"timestamp": [2230.08, 2232.04], "text": " Because you'd be able to get knowledge in there,"}, {"timestamp": [2232.04, 2234.84], "text": " and it would be knowledge that was like you're"}, {"timestamp": [2234.84, 2237.76], "text": " kind of actively engaging with rather than passively listening"}, {"timestamp": [2237.76, 2238.28], "text": " to."}, {"timestamp": [2238.28, 2239.12], "text": " Yeah."}, {"timestamp": [2239.12, 2243.96], "text": " So I'm thinking, is there not an application for,"}, {"timestamp": [2243.96, 2246.4], "text": " I mean Siri's always on, it's just so horrible."}, {"timestamp": [2246.4, 2250.54], "text": " Like, you know, I get frustrated every time I use it."}, {"timestamp": [2250.54, 2252.0], "text": " But if there was an always on agent"}, {"timestamp": [2252.0, 2253.36], "text": " that I could just interact with,"}, {"timestamp": [2253.36, 2255.84], "text": " I think maybe the reason they're not doing it is,"}, {"timestamp": [2258.04, 2259.56], "text": " maybe the technology is just too new,"}, {"timestamp": [2259.56, 2262.46], "text": " but maybe it can't scale, maybe it's not efficient enough."}, {"timestamp": [2263.84, 2267.04], "text": " But I think it can be made efficient."}, {"timestamp": [2267.04, 2268.56], "text": " I think a 30, 90 GPT."}, {"timestamp": [2268.56, 2270.36], "text": " Well, I mean, check GPT."}, {"timestamp": [2270.36, 2274.72], "text": " I mean, there's 100 million users in five days"}, {"timestamp": [2274.72, 2277.4], "text": " or something."}, {"timestamp": [2277.4, 2280.68], "text": " But the amount of money they're spending on server"}, {"timestamp": [2280.68, 2286.16], "text": " infrastructure is huge to accommodate that many people."}, {"timestamp": [2286.16, 2289.6], "text": " Even last night, as a plus member, I was kicked off."}, {"timestamp": [2289.6, 2295.92], "text": " I couldn't get in for several hours because it was too busy."}, {"timestamp": [2296.16, 2308.0], "text": " So this is why I think having a decentralized approach could be really good. So each having, you know, everyone"}, {"timestamp": [2308.0, 2315.76], "text": " has an AI in their house and then no single organization has to have billions and billions"}, {"timestamp": [2315.76, 2326.6], "text": " of dollars worth of servers running this stuff. And we're all responsible for our own AI in a way,"}, {"timestamp": [2326.6, 2331.2], "text": " in that we have the computing power for it."}, {"timestamp": [2331.2, 2333.16], "text": " Of course, that then potentially,"}, {"timestamp": [2333.16, 2335.44], "text": " there's a power cost associated with that."}, {"timestamp": [2335.44, 2336.88], "text": " And the cost of power is going up."}, {"timestamp": [2336.88, 2343.3], "text": " So that could become a roadblock to this whole having"}, {"timestamp": [2343.3, 2346.64], "text": " a decentralized assistant thing,"}, {"timestamp": [2346.64, 2350.56], "text": " or if most people in some countries can't even afford power."}, {"timestamp": [2350.56, 2355.42], "text": " So that's a whole another separate discussion."}, {"timestamp": [2355.42, 2359.0], "text": " But yeah, having"}, {"timestamp": [2359.0, 2368.32], "text": " the decentralized assistant in your house knows everything about you, can help you immensely"}, {"timestamp": [2368.32, 2375.2], "text": " with productivity, where to focus your time, integrating things, getting across more things,"}, {"timestamp": [2375.2, 2376.2], "text": " helping with relationships."}, {"timestamp": [2376.2, 2379.6], "text": " Like, there's so many use cases."}, {"timestamp": [2379.6, 2386.76], "text": " Yeah, I don't know if anyone's doing integrating tasks into the, I mean I imagine some people"}, {"timestamp": [2386.76, 2391.92], "text": " are integrating tasks, but yeah, it would be interesting to see what that looks like."}, {"timestamp": [2391.92, 2398.0], "text": " Like write an email for me and it actually writes the email and sends it, you know?"}, {"timestamp": [2398.0, 2401.12], "text": " Yeah, that's what I'm really interested in too."}, {"timestamp": [2401.12, 2426.16], "text": " But where I thought Raven sits at the moment is so early, but is focusing on the fundamentals of the AI, you know, working to optimize those three problems of prosperity, suffering, increasing guess, that falls into the prosperity is increasing productivity"}, {"timestamp": [2431.76, 2433.04], "text": " or doing tasks, which I'm yet to see in this project,"}, {"timestamp": [2436.64, 2439.36], "text": " but that would be game-changing if you could combine all that together."}, {"timestamp": [2443.04, 2451.2], "text": " Yeah, I think it's inevitable. It'll happen. We're heading in that direction. Yeah. So, from what I can see, this application is connecting. There's a whole heap of"}, {"timestamp": [2451.2, 2458.4], "text": " microservices. They look like they're connecting using this UVCore thing, which I don't know a"}, {"timestamp": [2458.4, 2465.84], "text": " whole heap about. So, I would want to learn a little bit about that. What is uvcore?"}, {"timestamp": [2468.72, 2474.32], "text": " Okay, so it's a web server, is it? Yeah, it's a"}, {"timestamp": [2478.08, 2484.72], "text": " asynchronous server for the application to expose it on a port, basically."}, {"timestamp": [2484.88, 2488.32], "text": " application to expose it on a port, basically."}, {"timestamp": [2490.12, 2495.04], "text": " Yeah, so I guess that has to be fast, because people have to have an exchange, quite"}, {"timestamp": [2495.04, 2499.2], "text": " a fast real-time exchange with this."}, {"timestamp": [2499.2, 2500.8], "text": " Yeah."}, {"timestamp": [2500.8, 2504.64], "text": " I'm just trying to find, I know I've seen him do more code"}, {"timestamp": [2504.64, 2510.0], "text": " than I'm finding. I feel like I've seen him do more code than I'm seeing here."}, {"timestamp": [2510.0, 2531.28], "text": " Yeah. That's how I kind of saw it too as I was going through. In his YouTube videos he was referencing a lot of other older repositories, but he said this is the main one. So, yeah, we'll write the syntax here. So, we'll learn more."}, {"timestamp": [2533.68, 2536.88], "text": " We should have done this stuff first. Like, we're probably just being..."}, {"timestamp": [2537.6, 2540.64], "text": " Yeah, I think it's because I've already looked through a lot of this stuff."}, {"timestamp": [2547.0, 2551.56], "text": " lot of this stuff. I want to just open up this, open up this, open up this."}, {"timestamp": [2556.84, 2571.0], "text": " Highly specialized cognitive microservice to collaborate a paralyzed cognitive architecture. Yeah. Yeah, it seems Mozilla AI is interested in the Raven project, which is interesting."}, {"timestamp": [2571.0, 2573.0], "text": " Yeah."}, {"timestamp": [2573.0, 2576.0], "text": " Consensus."}, {"timestamp": [2576.0, 2589.0], "text": " Mozilla is interested in creating autonomous AI agents. Probiotics of work around cognitive architecture and AGIA material."}, {"timestamp": [2598.0, 2600.0], "text": " Family."}, {"timestamp": [2616.16, 2623.12], "text": " So there is a video on YouTube called Introducing the Raven MVP, a general purpose AI companion with a live demo from David Shapiro on his channel."}, {"timestamp": [2623.12, 2632.0], "text": " So that's, if you want to watch a live demo of it, we'll put it in the description below."}, {"timestamp": [2632.0, 2637.0], "text": " And you can watch David actually run his code base and chat with it."}, {"timestamp": [2637.0, 2652.56], "text": " It's got a voice that he's added and everything. Here's some discussions here. So hardware portable Raven."}, {"timestamp": [2659.32, 2665.68], "text": " At a minimum, what do they need? Automatic speech recognition, text-to-speech, and then..."}, {"timestamp": [2667.44, 2670.96], "text": " Yeah, so some people, and then there's another one of some people talking about putting it on a"}, {"timestamp": [2670.96, 2676.88], "text": " Raspberry Pi, connecting to your phone via Bluetooth to be the processor, but then maybe"}, {"timestamp": [2676.88, 2682.64], "text": " perhaps your phone connects to your computer via the internet."}, {"timestamp": [2682.72, 2688.72], "text": " computer via the internet."}, {"timestamp": [2691.12, 2692.64], "text": " Yeah, that's the kind of, I was thinking about having"}, {"timestamp": [2697.84, 2699.84], "text": " some sort of low power microphone speaker device kind of thing."}, {"timestamp": [2704.0, 2704.72], "text": " It seems pretty trivial to spin this out to a wide array of vendors once the architecture is solidified."}, {"timestamp": [2707.12, 2710.32], "text": " Yeah. Yeah, I wouldn't focus too much on the specific implementation"}, {"timestamp": [2710.32, 2711.44], "text": " of the hardware."}, {"timestamp": [2711.44, 2713.98], "text": " Can be for a prototype, can be over-engineered,"}, {"timestamp": [2713.98, 2717.24], "text": " just have a Raspberry Pi linked back to a local computer"}, {"timestamp": [2717.24, 2719.08], "text": " if you need to."}, {"timestamp": [2719.08, 2720.72], "text": " First thing I think is to get it working."}, {"timestamp": [2720.72, 2726.08], "text": " But I'll share your experiments and tests here."}, {"timestamp": [2731.6, 2736.4], "text": " AGI project, requirements, hydro requirements."}, {"timestamp": [2738.32, 2740.32], "text": " So"}, {"timestamp": [2747.0, 2750.0], "text": " This is what he was considering using for something like this. What is this?"}, {"timestamp": [2750.0, 2754.0], "text": " Privacy respecting smart speaker."}, {"timestamp": [2754.0, 2758.0], "text": " It's open hardware for software and developers and makers."}, {"timestamp": [2758.0, 2768.6], "text": " Provides a great voice experience without satisfying privacy."}, {"timestamp": [2768.6, 2771.6], "text": " So yeah, it's a little pricey."}, {"timestamp": [2774.16, 2777.8], "text": " But I deliberately haven't got one of those in my house"}, {"timestamp": [2777.8, 2780.12], "text": " because of the privacy implications."}, {"timestamp": [2780.12, 2793.92], "text": " So yeah. So, yeah, so people worried about running this stuff on"}, {"timestamp": [2794.64, 2799.04], "text": " on small micro services."}, {"timestamp": [2799.2, 2803.6], "text": " So they're talking about hardware again. I think they're going a little bit..."}, {"timestamp": [2803.6, 2805.12], "text": " I mean, yeah, it's good to discuss the"}, {"timestamp": [2805.12, 2810.08], "text": " hardware, but I would focus on... maybe there's more of the software that I'm missing."}, {"timestamp": [2812.96, 2817.36], "text": " That's what interests me. Yeah, I think that's what's happened, is that there's this new"}, {"timestamp": [2817.36, 2831.52], "text": " repository, things aren't fully worked out yet, and yeah, there's a lot of discussions on the philosophy and the hardware,"}, {"timestamp": [2834.16, 2838.16], "text": " but not a lot of instructions on how to get it running on different platforms."}, {"timestamp": [2840.64, 2844.08], "text": " Yeah, I don't think there's anything to... you've seen it running there, haven't you?"}, {"timestamp": [2844.08, 2845.28], "text": " Should we find the YouTube video?"}, {"timestamp": [2845.28, 2850.64], "text": " Just on the YouTube video, yeah. I've just mentioned it earlier."}, {"timestamp": [2850.64, 2853.84], "text": " Did you want to paste the link into the chat?"}, {"timestamp": [2853.84, 2855.84], "text": " Yeah, send it to you."}, {"timestamp": [2873.2, 2876.76], "text": " So I'm just going to fast forward through. This is a different repo that he's referring to."}, {"timestamp": [2876.76, 2879.56], "text": " Yeah, can we see which one it is?"}, {"timestamp": [2879.56, 2882.92], "text": " This one looks like Raven MVP public."}, {"timestamp": [2882.92, 2886.04], "text": " What was that file called? looks like Raven MVP public."}, {"timestamp": [2888.52, 2890.08], "text": " What was that file called? I think it was Raven MVP public."}, {"timestamp": [2890.08, 2890.58], "text": " OK."}, {"timestamp": [2901.44, 2903.72], "text": " Yeah."}, {"timestamp": [2903.72, 2905.0], "text": " So Raven MVP public memories."}, {"timestamp": [2905.0, 2910.0], "text": " I just didn't see anything like that in the..."}, {"timestamp": [2910.0, 2915.0], "text": " No, I know. Yeah, that's what I went through it too and I just couldn't find it."}, {"timestamp": [2915.0, 2920.0], "text": " Dave Shapiro, go to repositories."}, {"timestamp": [2920.0, 2926.4], "text": " So obviously there's some stuff committed in here, not too much in the other ones."}, {"timestamp": [2926.4, 2932.4], "text": " Rather than one of the other things we can do is we can get inside. So I always find interesting to look at the network."}, {"timestamp": [2932.4, 2948.0], "text": " So you can see here's a few other people who are contributing stuff. pull request one, domain."}, {"timestamp": [2948.0, 2952.0], "text": " So what is this file?"}, {"timestamp": [2956.0, 2960.0], "text": " You can dive in here and see what"}, {"timestamp": [2960.0, 2964.0], "text": " people are doing, but it doesn't seem to be much created in that"}, {"timestamp": [2964.0, 2966.88], "text": " network."}, {"timestamp": [2966.88, 2989.08], "text": " But so yeah, it does seem like this is really the most up-to-date place for looking at stuff. Yeah, anyway, sorry guys, we couldn't get it running, but we'll look into that more"}, {"timestamp": [2989.08, 3000.4], "text": " and we do think that this could be a future that could be beneficial for people who want"}, {"timestamp": [3000.4, 3005.76], "text": " to adopt the AI stuff but really concerned about the privacy implications."}, {"timestamp": [3008.8, 3010.72], "text": " I think also just from an application development point of view, like"}, {"timestamp": [3014.64, 3015.92], "text": " just as a framework that you could use to build your own applications, like okay,"}, {"timestamp": [3020.56, 3026.08], "text": " maybe a lot of the conventions and the code's not there yet, but who wants to be building everything from scratch themselves all the time? And so getting behind a project like this where you're building out the"}, {"timestamp": [3027.46, 3029.88], "text": " the boilerplate stuff so that you don't have to do it"}, {"timestamp": [3030.44, 3033.16], "text": " all individually, I think makes perfect sense."}, {"timestamp": [3034.04, 3036.56], "text": " So you can then you can make it narrow AI"}, {"timestamp": [3037.76, 3043.48], "text": " projects as well. So yeah, definitely. Yeah, this is a thing. This is a community project. So"}, {"timestamp": [3044.28, 3047.84], "text": " there's no guarantee that it's going to be working. It's not a commercial project"}, {"timestamp": [3048.48, 3050.82], "text": " there isn't like the support, but there's a"}, {"timestamp": [3051.4, 3055.28], "text": " Support forum where it's community members helping community members. So"}, {"timestamp": [3056.56, 3058.88], "text": " you got to have a have a sense of"}, {"timestamp": [3060.04, 3063.3], "text": " compassion for these projects because it's it's never"}, {"timestamp": [3064.4, 3066.16], "text": " always going to be like a"}, {"timestamp": [3067.84, 3074.32], "text": " state-of-the-art thing that's running perfectly at 99% uptime all the time."}, {"timestamp": [3075.28, 3081.68], "text": " So you have to start thinking like a developer and that things take a while and improvements and"}, {"timestamp": [3081.6, 3085.7], "text": " while and improvements. And yeah, I think, yeah, it's going"}, {"timestamp": [3085.7, 3088.26], "text": " to be a really interesting project to keep"}, {"timestamp": [3088.26, 3091.3], "text": " an eye on over the coming years."}, {"timestamp": [3091.3, 3093.5], "text": " It seems like he's doing it full time now."}, {"timestamp": [3093.5, 3098.9], "text": " And there's quite a large community in the discussions."}, {"timestamp": [3098.9, 3100.3], "text": " If you go to the Discussions tab,"}, {"timestamp": [3100.3, 3106.4], "text": " and you can see a lot of a lot of conversations going on"}, {"timestamp": [3111.22, 3111.44], "text": " Looks like they might be I don't know what the discussion is, but maybe having a discord eventually"}, {"timestamp": [3118.98, 3119.84], "text": " But there's this one of those discussions. They have like 60 or something people should we have a discord slack reddit or"}, {"timestamp": [3121.84, 3126.32], "text": " Can't read that last one."}, {"timestamp": [3132.16, 3132.48], "text": " Yeah, so interesting."}, {"timestamp": [3139.6, 3143.28], "text": " Yeah, so I would have a look further at getting this working and try and get behind it. What else do you want to talk about? Is there"}, {"timestamp": [3143.28, 3145.12], "text": " anything else you want to cover today? I think that's probably it. What else do we want to talk about? Is there anything else you want to cover today?"}, {"timestamp": [3152.0, 3153.44], "text": " I think that's probably it. I've been working a lot on my YouTube automation stuff,"}, {"timestamp": [3159.36, 3169.0], "text": " getting chapters working, as I mentioned earlier. So that's an exciting project, and I'll probably release the chapter selection thing and a few other things to the community."}, {"timestamp": [3169.0, 3175.0], "text": " So yeah, I'd be excited to get that happening soon."}, {"timestamp": [3175.0, 3177.0], "text": " Sounds great."}, {"timestamp": [3177.0, 3184.0], "text": " Yeah, my goal is to get our last video up this afternoon if I have time."}, {"timestamp": [3184.0, 3188.32], "text": " Depends, I've got a few bugs to work out. But"}, {"timestamp": [3188.32, 3195.52], "text": " yeah, the first video is on YouTube and I'll probably set that live soon. And"}, {"timestamp": [3195.52, 3207.52], "text": " just working out ways to chug out or slice it into smaller components like stories as well as smaller sort of 10-minute"}, {"timestamp": [3207.52, 3214.16], "text": " bite-sized videos as well. Yeah, that'd be interesting to see that up and running and"}, {"timestamp": [3214.16, 3219.6], "text": " then yeah we'll just try and get better at this every week. I tried to get better with my camera"}, {"timestamp": [3219.6, 3231.44], "text": " management skills and stuff today using OBS. Yeah, I think that was a significant improvement. My videos are done from my office in a meeting room, so I can't really, I'm just like sitting"}, {"timestamp": [3231.44, 3236.8], "text": " with my laptop on a desk. I can't really set up too much here because there's no PowerPoints or"}, {"timestamp": [3236.8, 3245.84], "text": " anything nearby, but yeah, we'll see how we go. See what the feedback is. We just want to keep it a minimum viable product at this point,"}, {"timestamp": [3245.84, 3253.52], "text": " so something that we can jump on at a moment's notice and hit record and start producing content."}, {"timestamp": [3254.4, 3259.2], "text": " So yeah, that's the most important thing. Yeah, I think we'll wrap it up there."}, {"timestamp": [3260.56, 3266.28], "text": " Yeah, from my side, I don't have a lot of progress. I've been playing around with some of the image generation,"}, {"timestamp": [3266.28, 3269.52], "text": " run a little sticker store on Etsy for my wife,"}, {"timestamp": [3269.52, 3270.52], "text": " and we make stickers."}, {"timestamp": [3270.52, 3276.24], "text": " So actually, I'll pull it up just for argument's sake."}, {"timestamp": [3276.24, 3278.36], "text": " But yeah, we've been generating stickers for that"}, {"timestamp": [3278.36, 3279.64], "text": " and selling the stickers there."}, {"timestamp": [3279.64, 3284.16], "text": " So that's been fun."}, {"timestamp": [3284.16, 3286.0], "text": " I don't know if it's going to work or not, but..."}, {"timestamp": [3286.0, 3289.0], "text": " We can view..."}, {"timestamp": [3289.0, 3292.0], "text": " Our profile."}, {"timestamp": [3292.0, 3295.0], "text": " Sunny Sticker Maker is our name."}, {"timestamp": [3295.0, 3298.0], "text": " And so all this artwork is AI generated."}, {"timestamp": [3298.0, 3301.0], "text": " I think you need to switch your camera."}, {"timestamp": [3301.0, 3304.0], "text": " Yeah, so all these stickers are AI generated."}, {"timestamp": [3304.0, 3310.4], "text": " And then we put them onto sort of a slide deck,"}, {"timestamp": [3310.4, 3316.48], "text": " and I bought a sticker printer thing. And so, yeah, this is a little fun little side hobby."}, {"timestamp": [3316.48, 3320.08], "text": " We're not really selling many of them, but it was a chance to get familiar with"}, {"timestamp": [3322.72, 3325.92], "text": " actually making something and selling it"}, {"timestamp": [3325.92, 3328.4], "text": " as a physical product instead of just always trading time."}, {"timestamp": [3328.4, 3333.36], "text": " And we sometimes get interesting requests."}, {"timestamp": [3333.36, 3336.04], "text": " The one that I think that was the coolest one"}, {"timestamp": [3336.04, 3337.6], "text": " was probably the sushi one."}, {"timestamp": [3337.6, 3340.64], "text": " And so all these cool little pictures here,"}, {"timestamp": [3340.64, 3342.22], "text": " it was generated just with the image."}, {"timestamp": [3342.22, 3344.64], "text": " And then my designer took them and put them on this sheet."}, {"timestamp": [3344.64, 3348.16], "text": " So it's not like they just pop out of the algorithm exactly. Yeah, there's still"}, {"timestamp": [3349.12, 3356.0], "text": " human intervention there. Yeah, but that's one tangible thing. And I think there are a lot of"}, {"timestamp": [3356.0, 3361.52], "text": " people doing stuff like that. So yeah, oh yeah, if you just look like, yeah, like if you look at,"}, {"timestamp": [3361.52, 3367.4], "text": " like, I don't know, canvas image art, canvas canvas wall art or something you'll see a lot of them and just"}, {"timestamp": [3368.56, 3370.96], "text": " images that have just been created with mid journey and"}, {"timestamp": [3371.44, 3379.04], "text": " And resized to that print size. I don't know if I'll have mid journey in the title. They probably try to hide that fact, but"}, {"timestamp": [3379.68, 3381.08], "text": " Yeah"}, {"timestamp": [3381.08, 3387.72], "text": " We're doing it. I print out like look at this one. You know, like it's whatever it is."}, {"timestamp": [3387.72, 3388.6], "text": " Yeah."}, {"timestamp": [3388.6, 3389.32], "text": " How many of these?"}, {"timestamp": [3389.32, 3390.28], "text": " Are they selling these?"}, {"timestamp": [3390.28, 3394.16], "text": " This is 3,900."}, {"timestamp": [3394.16, 3395.6], "text": " This is not just of this one."}, {"timestamp": [3395.6, 3398.52], "text": " This is of their whole store."}, {"timestamp": [3398.52, 3400.04], "text": " Yeah."}, {"timestamp": [3400.04, 3405.12], "text": " So but yeah, there."}, {"timestamp": [3409.32, 3409.84], "text": " I don't know if it looks like all of them, like everything says I print on it."}, {"timestamp": [3410.34, 3411.2], "text": " Yeah."}, {"timestamp": [3413.08, 3416.2], "text": " So that's that's interesting. I think it's I think there's a lot of people doing this."}, {"timestamp": [3416.2, 3431.68], "text": " So it's really more about how good you are at marketing yourself and getting reviews and things like that in this marketplace."}, {"timestamp": [3431.68, 3452.64], "text": " I think there's a lot of people doing this stuff. I think where the interesting things that are much harder to do, like writing entire books and getting them on Amazon, or creating"}, {"timestamp": [3453.84, 3462.56], "text": " videos and getting them on YouTube, or doing something that typically requires, like,"}, {"timestamp": [3462.56, 3467.46], "text": " it's a little bit more complicated to do, because the barrier to entry for this stuff now is so low"}, {"timestamp": [3467.56, 3469.56], "text": " that anyone can"}, {"timestamp": [3469.96, 3471.96], "text": " Get up and running in like in a day"}, {"timestamp": [3474.76, 3476.08], "text": " So then it's just you know"}, {"timestamp": [3476.08, 3482.48], "text": " it could take months for you to get your first sale and next sale like you can't guarantee that the traffic's there unless you've"}, {"timestamp": [3483.04, 3488.28], "text": " You're doing advertising yourself, so I reckon that's probably how these guys, they might have already been"}, {"timestamp": [3488.28, 3492.96], "text": " established store and they've just absorbed this new technology."}, {"timestamp": [3492.96, 3496.52], "text": " The thing about Etsy is you can go back and actually see what they've sold."}, {"timestamp": [3496.52, 3501.96], "text": " Yeah. It's crazy but you can see whenever this was, I don't know, this is what"}, {"timestamp": [3501.96, 3506.48], "text": " they sold, you know, way back when, whenever they started,"}, {"timestamp": [3506.48, 3507.48], "text": " I guess."}, {"timestamp": [3507.48, 3510.32], "text": " So 2018, there's comments on this one."}, {"timestamp": [3510.32, 3511.32], "text": " Yeah, four years ago."}, {"timestamp": [3511.32, 3514.92], "text": " Yeah, so they've been running for four years."}, {"timestamp": [3514.92, 3518.36], "text": " And then probably, I don't know what they were selling originally, but lately, you can"}, {"timestamp": [3518.36, 3523.12], "text": " see the sorts of things they're selling, at least in their store here."}, {"timestamp": [3523.12, 3528.08], "text": " And so you could say, yeah, it's, I mean, they're not all AI,"}, {"timestamp": [3528.08, 3534.56], "text": " I don't know, or any of them AI. I don't know where that page was before. There was a whole"}, {"timestamp": [3534.56, 3539.52], "text": " heap of AI ones, but I think they're trying to sell them, but I don't see anyone actually having"}, {"timestamp": [3540.32, 3547.04], "text": " purchased any of them. Yeah. And that's what I think think I think that the novelty of it because it's just readily available"}, {"timestamp": [3547.2, 3550.36], "text": " anyone could just go online and create their own art and then put it on a"}, {"timestamp": [3551.32, 3556.8], "text": " print on demand demand service like a Vista print or something and and drop it in there and"}, {"timestamp": [3557.12, 3563.0], "text": " I mean, that's what I did for my dad's birthday was like I made some artwork with Dali that was"}, {"timestamp": [3563.6, 3567.84], "text": " Similar to an artist that he really liked and I just gave it to him for his like, you know"}, {"timestamp": [3567.84, 3571.84], "text": " Did it put put the picture on the on the canvas and the Vista print?"}, {"timestamp": [3572.32, 3574.32], "text": " Thing and then sent to him"}, {"timestamp": [3576.56, 3578.76], "text": " Yeah, so it's it's easy to do"}, {"timestamp": [3583.72, 3588.52], "text": " Yeah, it comes up to such great like detailed art there."}, {"timestamp": [3588.52, 3590.76], "text": " Yeah, it's shockingly good."}, {"timestamp": [3590.76, 3594.04], "text": " I always just love to paint here."}, {"timestamp": [3594.04, 3598.6], "text": " But now there's just going to be this flood of artwork that people are just, I don't think,"}, {"timestamp": [3598.6, 3602.28], "text": " I think the people who are buying, there's far less people buying them than there are"}, {"timestamp": [3602.28, 3605.52], "text": " people like wanting to sell them. I mean this has been sold are people's like Wanting to sell them"}, {"timestamp": [3605.52, 3609.6], "text": " I mean this has been sold but it's like 6 17, you know, like yeah"}, {"timestamp": [3610.08, 3617.44], "text": " The cost cost is going to drop down drastically the pro. I don't know what the profit they're making on that like it would be pretty low"}, {"timestamp": [3618.56, 3623.6], "text": " The print on demand service would be what's a digital download this one. Oh, it's a digital download. Okay"}, {"timestamp": [3624.88, 3632.0], "text": " so would be? Well, it's a digital download, this one. Oh, it's a digital download, okay. Okay, well, in that case, then it's all profit, so Etsy will take a percentage, of course. Yeah,"}, {"timestamp": [3632.96, 3638.8], "text": " so I mean, that's an interesting kind of avenue to take. And that would all be about volume,"}, {"timestamp": [3638.8, 3643.52], "text": " so you'd have to have heaps of... Yeah, I guess, you know, for us, we would like to,"}, {"timestamp": [3648.0, 3656.0], "text": " Yeah, I guess for us, we would like to narrow down on one of these community projects, build this AI kind of assistant and really not have to go to our day jobs every day and grind"}, {"timestamp": [3656.0, 3657.0], "text": " for funds."}, {"timestamp": [3657.0, 3664.2], "text": " Although I enjoy my work, I guess what we'll eventually get to is picking a project and"}, {"timestamp": [3664.2, 3665.4], "text": " building a product out of that"}, {"timestamp": [3665.4, 3668.08], "text": " and then making that come to life."}, {"timestamp": [3668.08, 3671.84], "text": " So that's kind of where we are heading."}, {"timestamp": [3673.36, 3675.6], "text": " And then as soon as we can free up our time"}, {"timestamp": [3675.6, 3680.12], "text": " from, you know, decouple our labor from time,"}, {"timestamp": [3680.12, 3682.88], "text": " then we'll be able to work more on cool stuff."}, {"timestamp": [3682.88, 3683.72], "text": " So."}, {"timestamp": [3683.72, 3684.76], "text": " Yeah, definitely."}, {"timestamp": [3686.08, 3692.8], "text": " Yeah. All yeah, definitely Yeah, all right guys, well, uh build your AI kingdom one one prompt at a time and"}, {"timestamp": [3694.7, 3697.0], "text": " Thanks for spending time with us today and"}, {"timestamp": [3697.96, 3703.24], "text": " Take taking a bit of a dive into the AI assistant world and some of the projects we're working on"}, {"timestamp": [3704.36, 3707.28], "text": " Nate you have anything you want to say, sum up?"}, {"timestamp": [3708.0, 3709.24], "text": " No."}, {"timestamp": [3709.24, 3711.24], "text": " Cool. Enjoy."}, {"timestamp": [3711.32, 3716.68], "text": " Thanks for going with us. I'm sorry it was, you know, so long-winded. We'll try and get better at this, but really we're just"}, {"timestamp": [3717.08, 3724.56], "text": " we're really trying to just iteratively improve every time and so we're honestly just trying to make sure we make a video at this"}, {"timestamp": [3724.56, 3725.64], "text": " stage every week"}, {"timestamp": [3725.64, 3729.36], "text": " and then make slight improvements as we go."}, {"timestamp": [3729.36, 3732.44], "text": " And so for those of us who are early and bearing"}, {"timestamp": [3732.44, 3734.84], "text": " with the journey, you'll see that we'll improve."}, {"timestamp": [3734.84, 3737.84], "text": " We're making an effort to improve every week."}, {"timestamp": [3737.84, 3740.08], "text": " But yeah, it's not."}, {"timestamp": [3740.08, 3740.92], "text": " We're not there yet."}, {"timestamp": [3740.92, 3743.34], "text": " We're not pretending to be primetime or anything like that."}, {"timestamp": [3743.34, 3743.84], "text": " So yeah."}, {"timestamp": [3743.84, 3745.64], "text": " Cool. Yeah. Cool. No worries. All right, guys. We're not pretending to be prime time"}, {"timestamp": [3749.52, null], "text": " No worries, all right guys, we'll talk to you later. See ya"}]}