{"text": " Good morning everybody, David Shapiro here. Today's video is going to be on both of my channels and the reason is because paying attention to the conversation, really the impact of artificial intelligence and how it's going to change the world is people are coming around to understand that something big is happening. And as I've pointed out in other videos and online, there has never been a case of a new technology not transforming human society. And what I mean by that is from the advent of writing, the printing press, radio, television, and internet, every time we invent a new information technology, it fundamentally changes the human condition. And I don't mean like, you know, we're no longer human, but it changes the way that we interact with the world and it changes the way that we interact with each other. And artificial intelligence is no different. Whether or not AI ever becomes sentient or autonomous or AGI or super intelligence, that's not the point. Artificial intelligence is already changing the landscape. There have been mass layoffs due to AI. There are cases of basically students just entirely relying on artificial intelligence to do their homework. So it's already changing the philosophical and information landscape of humanity. And one question that keeps coming up is, you know, well what happens if we all lose our jobs? You know, Dave, you talk about post-labor economics, but you know there are people that would, you know, say they'd rather die than, you know, post-labor economics, but there are people that would say they'd rather die than lose the dignity of labor. And we are also in the midst of what I call a nihilistic crisis, which we'll unpack later. But I just wanted to provide some context, some flavor as to why this video is coming out now and where we're going. And basically the reason is that humanity is about to change drastically. And this philosophy, I believe, is a necessary contribution to the conversation. I'm not going to say that this is the next universal philosophy. It's just an idea to put out there. And I think that it'll be very helpful as humanity navigates these coming changes. So post-Nihilism, the central axiom is meaning is not necessary. So let's dive in. Here's a basically table of contents for the rest of the video. First, we're going to talk, we're going to tackle the history of Western philosophy. It's going to be a very high-level overview. I'm not going to bore you to death with all the details. Then we'll move on and talk about more contemporary movements such as the rise of secularism and the rise of nihilism. We'll talk about the death of meaning which kind of leads us to where we are now. We'll talk about postmodernism and absolute truth. And this is an example of how technology has changed our interaction with philosophy and each other. Because basically, the rise of mass media challenged any notion of what does truth even mean. And of course, now we are in a post-truth era. And then number five, we're going to talk about a few contemporary thinkers. Some of them are still alive, some of them aren't, but basically we'll talk, I'll address where other people are taking the conversation and by virtue of that contrast I'll show you how I'm taking it in a different direction. Then I'll unpack the meaning crisis or what I call the nihilistic crisis, which I have articulated, I believe I've articulated it more clearly than other people have. Number seven, we'll talk about moving beyond nihilism. How do you get out of the quagmire of nihilism? Number eight, I'll define post-nihilism a little bit more clearly. Number nine, I'll give you the background, how I came up with post-nihilism. Number ten, I'll share some of the influences, some of the global influences that I had that kind of informed post-nihilism. Number eleven, we'll talk about letting go of the demand for meaning because this is the primary transition from whatever worldview you have right now to a post-nihilistic worldview. Number 12, we'll unpack some of the principles of post-nihilism, and this is not an exhaustive list, but it's one thing just to keep in mind that like, okay, here are some downstream derivative effects of post-nihilism. And then finally, 13, we'll talk about some of the criticisms, some of the things that you might just say, well, what about this? Okay, so let's dive in. As promised, here is a very high-level overview of the history of Western philosophy. So it starts, the Western tradition starts in ancient Greece, specifically Athens, with Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. Most of you have at least heard a few things from these guys. Socratic method, Plato's dialogues, and the Republic, that sort of thing. Aristotle said something along the lines of, it is the mark of an educated mind to entertain an idea without accepting it, otherwise known as analytic third space. Moving forward, the Romans adopted a tremendous amount of influence from the Greeks, but they took it a different direction. So particularly Marcus Aurelius really set the tone for Stoicism, which Stoicism is not about suppressing emotions, it's about recognizing emotions and then just choosing to be rational anyways. A lot of people misinterpret stoicism to be ignore emotions, suppress emotions, and that's what I call actually toxic stoicism. So anyways, don't want to get lost on that tangent, focusing on the purpose. Moving forward to medieval times, Thomas Aquinas basically came up with the idea of natural law. This kind of set the stage for moving more towards intellectualism and empiricism and even set the stage for science. Basically he said that like humanity and things abide by some kind of natural law. He said that natural law was handed down by God, but, you know, okay, whatever. Moving forward to the Renaissance, this was the rebirth of learning, of intellectualism, and people during the Renaissance actually very deliberately went back and cherry-picked stuff out of the Roman and Greek periods of time. And this is also where they came up with what we today call the university system, which the entire idea of the university was to create a universal man or someone who knows everything that there is to know at the time. And actually, one thing that I learned recently is that when universities first were created, everyone took every class. But we now, of course, there's too many classes, you couldn't take everyone, so you have to specialize. Moving forward beyond the Renaissance, there's Enlightenment. So the Enlightenment was kind of, again, a development of that, where you go from natural law to more intellectualism, and then that's where we start to set the stage for empiricism, rationalism, and the invention of the scientific method. So again, we're moving away from the more religious view and towards a more secular view, which we'll unpack again in a little bit. Moving forward into the 19th century, this is where existentialism and nihilism first came to be, as well as transcendentalism and manifest destiny. So as people had a less and less religious worldview and a more secular worldview that was anchored in the material world, people are like, well, you know, if the directives of our religion are less important than maybe like just we can do whatever we want. And so nihilism and transcendentalism in my opinion are kind of two sides of the same coin. Nihilism says there is no meaning, there is no purpose, nothing has any intrinsic meaning, and transcendentalism says go for it. And then moving into the 20th century existentialism, it kind of kept going down and it became absurdism, but also we saw the creation of postmodernism, which we'll unpack in a minute. So anyways, this is a very, very high-level snapshot of the history of Western philosophy, just to provide a little bit of historical context. Okay, so now we need to really talk about the rise of secularism. So the Enlightenment and the Industrial Revolution focused on human reason and science and empirical evidence which also dovetailed with the decline of religious authority. We saw, you know, the French Revolution was in part about the control of religion and the rejection of religion and France became, very deliberately became a secular nation. America became a secular nation and since then most Western powers have become purely secular nations. Not entirely and not universally, but by and large nation-states have become more secular. This also dovetailed with a shift towards nihilism, and so whether or not someone believes in nihilism or even knows what nihilism means, this has become so deeply embedded and ingrained in Western society by virtue, by extension of empiricism and other things because science is... well here, the growth of materialist philosophies and science's inability to provide life's ultimate meaning. Science is not able to tell you why we exist, what is our purpose, but our fixation, our preoccupation with science means that by virtue of favoring science and empiricism and rationality, we don't have an answer to life's purpose. Why are we here? You know, and this of course Douglas Adams with Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy made a parody of this, you know, what is what, you know, life, what is the meaning of life, the universe, and everything, and the answer is 42. That is an absurdist take on the nihilistic crisis. And so it has just become so deeply embedded in our culture that we just kind of have this belief, even many religious people kind of are like, eh, you know, maybe. Some people believe that they have some kind of cosmic meaning yeah, you know, maybe. You know, some people believe that they have some kind of cosmic meaning, but even a lot of religious people, nihilism is so deeply embedded in our society that you can't really escape it. And so this has had a few consequences in society, namely the existential crisis, searching for meaning in society, namely the existential crisis, searching for meaning in a secular world is really difficult, and then of course there's a bunch of moral relativism where it's like, well, your truth is different from my truth, there are no moral absolutes, and so basically we've kind of shattered everything and there's no answers, there's just pieces everywhere. And then so this ultimately it's a double-edged sword. This is kind of the bottom line, literally and figuratively the bottom line, is that this freedom from religious doctrine is a double-edged sword. On the one hand it liberates you from dogmatic thinking. On the other hand it doesn't provide an answer and so then you're just kind of lost. You throw off the shackles, but now where do you go? This is also called the problem of choice. If you can choose to do anything, how do you choose what to do? And evidence is that human brains actually, we don't do well when you have infinite choice. And so this gives rise to things like in The Avengers when Loki says, like, Neil, you crave subjugation. What he's actually tapping into is humanity's inability to kind of choose for itself when we have too many options. I'm not saying that that's an absolute truth, because many people can choose their own direction. But if everyone's going in different directions, we kind of look like ants that have been scattered from an outside perspective. And I'm not saying that that's a bad thing. Exploration is good. Anyways, getting lost on a tangent. Okay, death of meaning. So here's the problem. Is that the need for meaning, the idea that there is a cosmic meaning, that there is a cosmic purpose, that there is a cosmic purpose, a universal purpose is so deeply embedded in Western culture from 2000 years, well actually, 6000 years of Judaism, 2000 years of Christianity, and 1500, 1400 years of Islam. The idea that there is a cosmic entity that confers meaning and purpose is so deeply embedded in our culture that whether or not you're religious you are completely inculcated in this narrative, in this grand narrative, and it's impossible to break out of that until you are aware of that narrative. And so the idea that there is some cosmic truth is manifested in the pursuit of objective truth and morality. The idea that, well, we can't escape the notion that God is the ultimate arbiter of truth, facts, and morality, and so then, well, if you get rid of God, then what gives out objective truth and morality? And then this need for meaning is then continued to be sustained by virtue of all the philosophers who may or may not have been aware of their own cultural bias, their own cultural upbringing. Because when you study Eastern philosophy and the history of China, Japan, Korea, other places, you see that a lot of these narratives are just missing and their worldview is very different from ours. So then you have another point of conflict is scientific understanding basically undermines all of those traditional narratives. So for instance, Charles Darwin with the theory of evolution completely challenges the idea of human exceptionalism, which again, remember that many religious narratives say that humans are preordained by God to be special, to be in God's image, and it's like, well, there's not really any evidence of that, other than the fact that we are apparently the smartest creatures on the planet, but okay, we're also highly destructive. So if we're modeled after God, what does that say about God? And then psychology, Freud, Jung, and everyone in the 20th century basically, and neuroscience is like, we actually don't know ourselves as well as we think we do. We're not the rational creatures that we that we are. A friend of mine from my writing group said we are purely emotional creatures who paper over our decisions post-facto with a veneer of logic and reason, which it's like yeah that's about it. So we if you think that you're irrational, you're not. you are an emotional creature that has a wallpaper of rationality Overtop a hot mess of emotions and and personal narratives and experience and ego and then of course physics cosmology quantum physics theory of gravity and all that stuff basically like What even is reality? There's the measurement problem and so the more we learn, the more any foundation, any solid foundation of the notion of reality or objective absolute truths is very difficult. And so then this leads to the death of meaning through things like postmodernism, which postmodernism came around in the 1960s if I remember correctly, which basically said like all of our grand narratives, all of our meta narratives are not true. Everything that we think we know about the way the world works, such as God created everything or that humans are exceptional, basically that Western worldview started really crumbling in the 60s, which in the grand scheme of things for philosophical movements that's a really short period of time. And so all of the grand narratives about the stories that we tell ourselves about our place in the universe and why the universe exists and why and how and everything purpose meaning are all crumbling and eroding. There's a lot of inertia, which is why they're still here. But, uh, when, as it's decaying, it's not been replaced by anything. And that leads us to where we are today. Postmodernism and post truth era. So, uh, postmodernism as simply put as I can is a, is the philosophical and cultural movement that questions foundational assumptions and grand narratives. Basically, nothing is sacred, everything can be scrutinized, and this basically creates relativism, skepticism, and in an ideal world, promotes discourse. But what happens with internet is we end up with echo chambers. And so then it's like, well, my truth is different from your truth. You know, we can choose alternative facts. So this is all a downstream effect of postmodernism. Some of the most influential thinkers, Derrida with deconstructionism, Foucault with power knowledge and the concept of discourse saying that like hey the the importance of talking through things is is high. I think that that's actually too low-level that's a tactic not a strategy and that's why I'm talking about post- nihilism. Anyways, so some of the key themes of post-modernism is the rejection of absolute truth and universal morals. This is that relativism that I was talking about, which is, you know, your truth is different from my truth. I believe in alternative facts. Emphasis on local and specific narratives. So this is what I mean by local and specific narratives, where you can have an epistemic tribe that believes one set of things, like flat earthers, that's an epistemic tribe that believes one set of things like flat earthers, that's an epistemic tribe, that they have their own set of beliefs and evidence and facts and narratives versus a more global perspective. And then of course one of the things, and this is what some people like Jordan Peterson complain about, is the fluidity of identities. If you throw out the rigid, dogmatic way of thinking, like, there are only two genders, you should only be heterosexual, then of course you say, okay, well actually, when you look closely at other cultures, because it's really quite absurd when you look at people that are anti-trans, it's like, look at any number of other cultures around the world that they just accept that gender fluidity is not a binary, and they never have questioned it. And so like, then you have this very imperialistic Western white man's burden idea that it's like, oh, well, I have to go civilize these other cultures because clearly they're uncivilized, while I'm not even unpacking my own assumptions. So anyways, one of the benefits of postmodernism is the recognition that there is no single narrative, that Victorian Imperial England maybe didn't have the right narrative, and so then it's like well, let's unpack some of the individual differences and marginalized groups and different ways of thinking but the other side of that coin is that if we respect everyone's different ways of thinking some people can be very destructive or can just be willfully ignorant of Facts and process and other things and they kind of create their own worldview which again double-edged sword. All right so some contemporary thinkers there's John Vervaeke who is he's the one who codified the meaning crisis and one of the things that he says is you know again dialogue practice of authentic dialogue. So he didn't invent that, but he's carrying that torch, which again, dialogue. That is why the internet exists, right? That's why we make YouTube videos and Twitter threads about this stuff. And another thing is that he is grounded in cognitive science and ancient traditions. So this is a common theme and this is something that I even have in common with these guys. But now I look at Western and Eastern traditions and I also have knowledge and experience with traditions from the global South such as South America and Africa. Seraphim Rose, he was an Orthodox Christian monk who wrote Nihilism, the Root of the Revolution of the Modern Age. Oh boy. Talk about someone who hasn't unpacked their own baggage. This is someone who joined the post-modernist movement in the 40s, 50s, and 60s, I believe, but ended up an alcoholic, literally like laying on the floor screaming because he was angry about being abandoned by God. And so then he did a 180 and reversed course and became that Orthodox Christian monk and saying, ah, this is clearly the solution because I feel better. So basically he was unable to escape his cultural indoctrination, let's say. So he was not able to escape nihilism, instead he had to go backwards. And this is the danger of, and this is why I'm bringing this up, is because this is the danger of looking to the past for answers. You can get inspiration, ideas from the past, but humanity cannot go backwards. And of course, this is another thing Jordan Peterson also advocates for going backwards. He talks about the importance of myths and religious narratives. Again, this is basically standing in stark contrast to nihilism and postmodernism where it's like, well, we threw out all of these grand narratives, all these meta narratives, but maybe we should just go back to them. And so of course, like if you're just advocating to literally just go straight backwards, that's not really gonna work. And then of course he emphasizes personal responsibility and the pursuit of truth, but then of course when people pursue their own truth he says well not like that, that's not what I meant. You need to adhere to traditional power structures. And so these guys have not really moved forward and I'm not criticizing John Vervacchi, I've watched some of his stuff, I just disagree with the direction forward, but certainly some of these other guys I definitely disagree with. Okay, so the meaning crisis or what I call the nihilistic crisis. It has four primary pillars. First is childhood abandonment. This is the universal experience of childhood trauma, whether it's from mild emotional neglect to severe existential terror. All children experience these things at some point in time, whether you know when children first become aware of death they often will have a bit of a crisis and then of course there are all parents fail in some ways, right? Whether they are profoundly abusive parents or even well-meaning parents who just do something wrong for whatever reasons. But all parents fall short of perfect in some ways. And these failures are often reinforced and perpetuated and unaddressed due to whether it's religious narratives, because a lot of religions, a lot of churches will basically instruct parents on the correct way of raising children. There's social paradigms, there's family paradigms, and then of course there's also intergenerational trauma, which is very widespread in the world. But anyways, the result of childhood abandonment, which again is an intrinsic part of life, is that if it is not addressed, if it is not corrected, it will harm someone's sense of self-worth, security, and attachment, but it also deeply changes their worldview when it goes unaddressed. The second pillar is social abandonment. So what we see in today's society is that emphasis on personal responsibility, rugged individualism and self-sufficiency, and often this comes at the expense of or directly antagonistic to community. I can't rely on anyone else. Everyone else is an idiot. I need to take care of myself because no one will help me and I'm not going to help anyone else. That is the narrative that has emerged in part because of the postmodernist take on the getting rid of grand narratives. We're not all Americans. The American identity is gone, right? We don't look after each other because I don't know what my neighbor is up to. I might not trust them. They might disagree with me on politics or religion or whether or not we should allow abortions, whatever, right? And so because of this, because we are in a state of crisis, alienation and disconnection is the norm. This also is being driven by the fact that we are more of a global species than ever. And so you can hop on the internet, you can look on Twitter, YouTube, TikTok, everywhere. You can see horrible things happening around the entire world. You can, at a glance, just scrolling through Reddit, you can see awful things happening all over the world, and you can see people with a fundamentally different worldview than you. And so this just makes you kind of throw up your walls and say, you know what? The world is big and scary and confusing, and I can't handle it. Right, and that's called mean world syndrome. This whole problem is exacerbated by the fact that we have primate brains that have just simply not yet fully evolved to be global citizens. Remember that as recently as a hundred years ago, most people lived and died within 10 miles of where they were born. And of course, you might've read the newspaper, but your newspaper was a local paper and you might have just a tiny trickle feed of global news through the newspaper. And so, two or three generations is not enough time for species to evolve to really comprehend and develop the cognitive faculties to be a global species. And so this makes us paradoxically, even though we're more connected than ever, we saw this with Facebook. Mark Zuckerberg had the idea of, hey, we create a social glue that allows everyone to communicate with everyone else, but it actually had the opposite effect because in part we are just not ready to be a global species. We need to be, the pressure is on, but this leads to the the perverse reaction of alienation, disconnection, and isolation. The third pillar of the nihilistic crisis is cosmic abandonment. And so this basically means that no matter how far we look out into the universe, we see a cold, indifferent cosmos. This is a lonely universe that is apparently mostly empty. Not only that, we've already had the rise of secularism, the death of God, and existential crisis. And so in this cold uncaring impersonal universe not only do we feel isolated socially, we feel isolated on a galactic scale. We feel isolated on a cosmic scale. And so this paradox of being you know we've only got the earth, we've only got each other, but we're not even talking to our neighbors anymore and so then we can feel completely alone at all levels starting from childhood up through teenage years adulthood and then even when we look further out into the universe we feel completely alone and so this ultimately leads to self-abandonment which is the overwhelming sense of despair, futility, and fatalism that comes from not ever finding relief from these abandonments, from this nihilistic crisis that the Western world, and really the entire world, has found itself in. It can lead to self-destructive behaviors such as addiction in all of its forms and self-harm of various forms as well. But then also it just leads to a loss of self-care, self-love and self-compassion, which can then reinforce the existential crisis because it's like, well, I don't care about myself because nobody else cares about me. And we see this in when, I actually got the inspiration for self-abandonment by listening to people talk about hustle culture, where people will just literally brag about not getting enough sleep because they have to work so hard. And I'm like, why would you brag about hurting yourself in this way? As the kids say these days, it's copium, right? It's an attempt to cope. But all of that copium is in response to this system of abandonment, which is again, rooted in these macroscopic changes that are literally centuries in the making, which is why it took so long for me to unpack all of this to realize, holy crap, this was literally like 2000 years in the making. for me to unpack all of this to realize, holy crap, this was literally like 2,000 years in the making. And certainly over the last 600 years of technological advancement has really accelerated it. And so when you look at these trends, it was kind of inevitable that there would be a clash, that there would be some kind of crisis, some kind of turning point. Okay, so the limitations of nihilism and moving beyond nihilism. How do we chart our path forward? So some people, as I mentioned earlier, advocate going backwards. Now this is either not possible or not desirable because society intrinsically does not just move backwards. You can't unlearn the things that you have learned. But also another problem, so this is like being caught between a rock and a hard place. Moving forward is confusing and difficult and often painful. If you don't know where you're going and why, you might just stick where you are. This is called the devil you know. Stay with the devil you know. Stay with the devil you know. And it's like, okay, well, right now sucks. And I definitely don't want to go backwards, but I don't know or believe that I can go forward, so I'm just gonna stay right here. This is also called learned helplessness. Learned helplessness is a huge feature of the nihilistic crisis. So one solution that has been proposed is so-called optimistic nihilism. So optimistic nihilism says, ah yes, you know, where there is no such thing as, you know, there's no intrinsic meaning, God is dead, so that means I am free to create my own meaning. But remember I talked about the problem of choice. And so, you know, okay know okay yes you are on an individual level able to create your own meaning but this doesn't replace everything that you lost with the nihilistic crisis so it does not fully address the pain and so therefore optimistic nihilism falls well short of giving you a new narrative, a new roadmap, a new model of engaging with reality and the confusing as hell existence that we all face. And so, because we can't go backwards and because the current solutions don't work, by virtue of lack of any other choice, we probably do have to go forwards. And so, this begs the question, what comes after nihilism? You know, you can guess the post-nihilism. Okay, but what does post-nihilism mean? Okay, so let's start to unpack post-nihilism. The central axiom, and this was the breakthrough that I had within the last couple weeks, was what is the underpinning assertion? The underpinning assertion of nihilism is that there is no intrinsic meaning. Meaning is meaningless. But moving beyond that, what I realized was that meaning is not actually necessary. And I'll tell you the story about how I came up with this. But here's a few, here's a high-level CliffsNotes version of post-nihilism. First and foremost, it challenges the traditional emphasis on cosmic or societal meaning. By saying that meaning is not necessary, you say maybe it was a false pretense all along. Maybe that, maybe we've got that cultural baggage, that historical baggage of cosmic meaning and we just need to kind of set that aside. Post-Nihilism emphasizes your individual journey rather than some cosmic journey or cosmic purpose. It values unique experiences and struggles. So basically your experience is yours, your journey is yours. No one can take that from you. And even regardless of whatever else is going on in the universe, that is always yours. Your experience is always that. The next thing is that it celebrates the transient moments of life. And so, you know, one thing that's really scary when you think about it for a minute is all you have is the current ephemeral moment. The version of you that was alive yesterday and thinking and breathing no longer exists. You went to sleep, your brain reset, your memory state reset, and yes, you woke up today and your brain has structures to pull some of those memories back, but the moment is gone. All the sensations that you had yesterday, last week, last year, all of moment is gone. All the sensations that you had yesterday, last week, last year, all of that's gone. And the future is uncertain. And so all you have is the current ephemeral moment of existence. And so when you when you think of it that way, our entire existence exists on the edge of a knife. It exists as a pinpoint in space and time. And that can be pretty unsettling. But when you understand that and you embrace, that's all you've got. That is a big part of post-nihilism. Another thing is that we can find a lot of fulfillment and purpose in satisfying our basic human needs and drives, and I'll unpack that more later. It encourages also engaging your intrinsic curiosity and your intrinsic motivations, your intrinsic drives that are that are rooted in your mind, your biology, and in your evolution. And one of the most important things is that while meaning is not necessary, this doesn't say that meaning is irrelevant. It doesn't say that meaning is undesirable. All I'm saying with post-nihilism is that meaning is not necessary. It's not the highest order of goals or purpose in life. You can still find meaning, you can still find purpose, but it's just not your number one priority. Okay, so the origins of post-nihilism. So I grew up in a secular home and when I was about four or five I was riding around with my dad and I asked as many precocious gifted children do, why are we here? Like what does it all mean? And my dad said basically there is no real reason, like we're just, we just are here, you know, there's the Big Bang, there's evolution, but there is no real reason like we're just we just are here you know there's the Big Bang there's evolution but there's no there's no overriding purpose there's no overarching narrative or meaning and so I was just like oh okay so I never had those grand narratives of meaning and purpose and so I had from a very young age this radical acceptance of the intrinsic meaningless of life. And so because I never grew up with that cosmic meaning, that need for cosmic meaning, it seemed really strange to me that other people didn't. That's another reason why it took me so long to figure out that this is actually something that other people need. And so fast forward more than 30 years or about 30 years, I started writing my novel about four years ago and part of my novel was envisioning a post-scarcity hyperabundant society. Basically kind of forecasting like okay let's assume that artificial intelligence and nuclear fusion and all these new technologies solve all of our material problems. If you get rid of all of our material problems and all of the need to work and everything, what's left? What philosophy would that society need to adapt in order to be healthy? Because I wanted to envision a utopia. Like, okay, so what underpinning philosophy does a utopia have? Obviously, it's not going to be nihilism because nihilism is intrinsically self-destructive. So if AI removes the need for human labor and effort and all need for struggle, what is left? And in the pursuit of answering that question through, I'm now on draft 13 of my novel, how do you move beyond that nihilistic crisis that we are presently mired in? How do we get, not just from a technical perspective, from a cultural, sociological, and philosophical perspective, how do we get from here to there? How do we get from our current trend of dystopia to a state of utopia? That is the origin of post-Nihilism. So some influences on post-Nihilism. As I mentioned earlier in the video, I have studied cultures all over the globe, in particular, Eastern philosophy and culture. And I found a lot of answers in Japanese culture and Japanese history. So one of the key influences is wabi-sabi. So wabi-sabi is a Japanese concept which literally you cannot translate to English. It just, it is untranslatable. But what it does is it focuses on imperfection, transience, and incompleteness. Basically it acknowledges the passage of time and the natural state of decay that is just an intrinsic part of life. And it's and this is why you see in many Japanese aesthetics like things are decaying, there's moss covering everything, stuff is old. And at the same time, the Japanese tend to rebuild stuff because of this deeply embedded acceptance of the passage of time and of decay and destruction of transience and imperfection. And it's like, okay, well, you know, the house has fallen down, so let's just build a new one. This radical acceptance of mortality of age of decay is very deeply embedded in Japanese culture. Another concept is Ichigo-ichi which translates roughly to one time one meaning. So this came from, this is exemplified by the the tea ceremonies from Japan. But again, it has to do with not just awareness, but embracing and appreciating that ephemeral fleeting nature of reality, that every moment is unique. Rather than trying to think of permanence and grand narratives, it just says, this moment right now is good or bad or whatever, but that radical acceptance of that transient ephemeral nature and just saying like yes this is beautiful right here. Shinto is a spiritual philosophy from ancient Japan and it has the concept of Kami which Kami is often translated to God because that's like the closest ish word but Kami means many things but it does not mean God it may it might mean divine not in a deity sense but it might mean divine in terms of the sublime and the awe-inspiring within the context of the mundane world. In other words, kami does not have to do with celestial origins. It has more to do with the majesty of nature, of life, of experience. And so in that respect, we are surrounded by kami at all times, but in particular during those that respect we are surrounded by kami at all times but in particular during those those those peak experiences in life. And then of course I also studied Zen Buddhism for many years which one of the most important lessons from Zen Buddhism is radical acceptance, challenging assumptions, and then letting go. Those are three of the biggest pillars of Zen Buddhism, which again dovetails actually very nicely with postmodernism, particularly challenging assumptions and letting go of baggage. So I took Western philosophy and Eastern philosophy and then shamanic experiences from the global South and all of that came together to make post-nihilism. Okay, so the journey from nihilistic crisis to post-nihilism is primarily about letting go of the demand for meaning, and what I mean by meaning is capital M meaning. So challenge the necessity of meaning. Question whether or not the need for meaning has been a false pretense all along. It's been a false narrative all along. One thing to keep in mind is that the universe hasn't changed. In all of human existence, from since before religion existed until long after we're gone, the universe, like yes it might be changing and evolving, but the fundamental precepts of the universe haven't changed. Only our perception has changed. Only our beliefs have changed. And so if that's true, maybe, you know, the the 2,000 or so years of the idea of cosmically imbued purpose, maybe that was a lie all along. And so then another way to unpack that is realize that the the narrative of meaning is just words. It's been put down in books, it's been put down in religion, it's been put down in stories, but it's still just a narrative. It's just a construct. It's a social construct and that without it if you unpack and kind of go to a primordial state, it was never there in the first place. And so then moving beyond is and letting go, it's not just about discarding the need for meaning, but you have to advance towards something else, right? As I mentioned earlier, the problems with postmodernism is that it shattered every narrative and then didn't replace it with anything else. And so then you're just kind of lost. And so in that respect, moving beyond nihilism, towards post-nihilism, is not just about rejection. It's not just about destroying the old way. It is also about growth and reformation and moving towards something else. And then finally, moving towards that state of post-nihilism, getting rid of the demand for meaning, is about embracing your individual experience. It's your journey, it's your struggles, and your challenges. And by wrapping yourself in that, and by saying, you know, yes this is my life, and there's a million things that I would change about it, but this is mine, and I can't get off this ride, right? And that's not like throwing your hands up and giving up. It's just saying, wow, this struggle that I'm going through, it sucks, but this struggle is part of the purpose or part of how I can find my own purpose or whatever. And then appreciating that transience and that uniqueness of those individual moments, of those ephemeral moments in reality. And then replace the demand for universal meaning with a focus on those personal moment-to-moment bits of significance, in search of the sublime, in search of experiencing, you know, the awe-inspiring, the moments of Kami, as the Japanese might say. And so then when you change your orientation to be really deeply anchored in the moment, in the ephemeral moment, and focusing on your own journey, rather than cosmic narratives, those false constructs, then life really changes for you. And what I will tell you is that when I had this breakthrough personally, like I was, it was just on repeat in my, in my head, like as I was trying to go to sleep, like, it's all about my journey, my journey. It's all about like, meaning is not necessary. It was just on repeat as my mind was like recalibrating itself to fully, to fully vest into post-nihilism. Okay, so I know this is a wall of text. By the way, you can download this whole thing. I'll show you the link at the end of the video. Here are some downstream principles, some derivative principles from post-nihilism, and this is not an exhaustive list. This is still a work in progress. Obviously, it can take decades to fully articulate a philosophical movement and by that time it's probably going to be irrelevant anyways. And by the way, I do not anticipate that post-nihilism is going to last forever. This is just the next phase of our philosophical growth. So first is embracing the ephemeral. I've talked about that quite a bit, but it's,'s you know life is seen as a series of unique unrepeatable moments each valuable in its own right. There you have it. Intrinsic motivation. So basically intrinsic motivation is looking at like the your inner reasons for doing anything. Whether it's pleasure, whether it's satisfaction, your just innate biological drives, or whatever, you know, your own desire for meaning or purpose, rather than some extrinsic motivation, right? Because God said so, that's what I mean by extrinsic versus intrinsic. Your individual journey, which I already talked about quite a bit, so I don't need to belabor that point. Rejection of cosmic necessity, Again, remembering that that these cosmic narratives might have been false in the first place. Biological grounding. Whatever else is true, your brain is not separate from your body. Your mind is not separate from your body. Yes, you might make the argument that like, okay, we have a soul and there's some evidence that, you know, your brain follows energetic patterns and responds to things that are not fully grounded in your body but the rest of your body is still grounded in physics and reality. And so when you look at at some of the frameworks that I'll pitch in just a second there are some universal truths about being a human animal that really for me offered a tremendous amount of guidance. A holistic approach. So again, rather than trying to separate out philosophy and mind from body and material, like we are a complete entity in a complex world and so rather than trying to look at philosophy in a vacuum, I advocate for looking at philosophy and life and existence holistically, which is our place in relation to all that and within it. And then finally challenge to transcendental narratives, pretty much the same thing as rejection of the cosmic narratives. But the idea of rejecting transcendental narratives is like the idea that there's some external force providing meaning. That whether or not that external force is outside of the cosmos itself, a hypercosmic entity, or if it's just completely abstract. But basically it says, let's stay rooted in our lived experience. Okay, so here are some helpful frameworks. The most famous one, Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs. These frameworks are pretty universal. They transcend cultural boundaries, and they reveal some universal truths about being human. And while you might want to say, oh, well, philosophy and reason and logic exists outside of humanity, I kind of don't think so and I didn't have a slide about this, but as I engage with the concept of emergence, emergent complexity, the existence of humanity and minds and thought is not a foregone conclusion in this universe. And so therefore when you look at the fact that like, okay, life came to be and that might have been an accident it emerged it was not necessarily an automatic thing so the complexity of life emerged from the underlying rules and systems of the universe and then from life emerged intelligence and then that emerged consciousness and all those other things and so the idea that there is something above us is not true it's all below us we are already at the top of complexity as as far as I can tell and so from that it's like okay well instead of looking up look down so you start with the physiological and safety and love and belonging and blah blah blah blah blah and then you know self actualization realizing your full potential and then transcendence basically this is this is where optimistic nihilism still kind of applies which is like ah well in order for me to reach my own maximum potential this is the direction i can choose i don't necessarily agree with transcendence um or looking at it through the lens of optimistic nihilism. Another thing is self-determination theory. So self-determination theory is actually a simpler framework than Maslow's hierarchy of needs. It has to do with belonging, mastery, and autonomy. So belonging, which is love and belongingness, and also esteem, your place in society. Mastery also has to do with esteem, but mastery also has to do with self-actualization and transcendent, which is like basically being the best that you can be, right? This is an intrinsic human motivation. And then finally, autonomy. So autonomy is something that is not reflected in Maslow's hierarchy of needs, but is basically autonomy is the ability the freedom to to act according to your own desires and your own goals choice theory by William Glasser is a framework that has five points so survival love power freedom and fun you can see a lot of a lot of similarity so like power is similar to mastery freedom is similar to mastery, freedom is similar to autonomy. Fun, fun is an interesting thing to add because that's not reflected here either. Survival, that's reflected here under physiological and safety, so that's pretty similar to those two. Then love, you know, so love and belongingness. And then Walsh's therapeutic lifestyle changes. So Roger Walsh created this framework, this TLC framework that has eight points. And so basically it's you know how to be healthy. So you know get enough exercise, get good nutrition, spend time in nature, have you know invest in your relationships, have good relationships, have recreation, so enjoyable hobbies that's fun, relaxation and rest, so that hobbies, that's fun. Relaxation and rest, so that is having a recovery time. Spirituality, so engaging with something bigger than yourself. And then service, acts of service or community service, giving back to the human condition. So these four frameworks are very, very helpful. And the reason that I advocate for these frameworks, So these four frameworks are very very helpful and the the reason that I advocate for these frameworks and another reason that I say that this is different from optimistic nihilism is Because optimistic nihilism throws the baby out with the bathwater along with nihilism. It says there is no meaning there is no purpose There is no reason but that's not actually true because weren't you at the end of the day? You're still human. You still have physiological needs. You still have a brain, you still have millions of years of evolution guiding who and what you are today. And these frameworks for me have been incredibly useful for figuring out what to do. And I actually forgot to include Ikigai, which is a Japanese framework for how to find meaning and purpose. So look up Ikigai. I should have a link in the comments. Okay, so moving forward. Criticisms of post-nihilism. One thing that you might say is like, okay, well if you just say meaning is not necessary, that's like, that's a cop-out, right? Maybe you're just giving up. But it's not giving up. It's not saying, oh well just throw your hands up and give up. It's just a change in perspective to say maybe the need for meaning is the wrong narrative. Maybe some of these other frameworks like Ikigai and Maslow's hierarchy of needs, maybe that is actually how I pursue a more meaningful, fulfilling life. Potential for misinterpretation. The central axiom meaning is not necessary. You can take that a lot of different directions, but starting there, you know, it's like, okay, well, and again, like I said, it can take decades to fully articulate a philosophical movement, and by no stretch of the imagination do I entertain the delusion that I am going to control the entire thing. I'm just introducing the concept. So maybe like previous philosophical movements, the things that I articulate will then be misinterpreted or misconstrued, deliberately or otherwise, who knows. Now here's an interesting one. Challenges to traditional masculinity. This is some feedback that I've gotten where it's like, well, as a man, I need a purpose. I need a mission in life. And I actually agree with this. I talked to some modern masculinists and healthy masculinists, and I absolutely agree. I don't know if this is true for women, but certainly for men, having a mission in life is one of the best ways to have a sense of purpose, a sense of meaning, and a sense of self-esteem. I know what my mission is. My mission is very clear. Now, that being said, I'm not putting the need for meaning first. I came to my mission by looking at who I am and what I am capable of and what I care about. It's very egocentric in that respect. And so what I want to say is that post-nihilism is not a threat to masculinity. It actually clears a lot of the path for traditional masculinity and healthy masculinity and I'll unpack that in the next slide. Another criticism could be that it is difficult to implement, especially given all the cultural baggage that we've got. It took me literally years to unpack all the cultural baggage that I got knowingly and unwittingly from my family, from the society, from messages in media, and that sort of thing. And so like, whether you're looking for markers of material success, conspicuous consumption, you know, existing narratives, there's a lot of inertia kind of keeping us where we're at. So changing directions takes a lot of energy. Another possible criticism is potential for complacency. So what I mean by this is that if you say, well, meaning isn't necessary, then it's like, okay, well, maybe nothing is necessary. And that's actually fair. That's a fair criticism because for some people, if you say, well, there is no grand purpose, there is no grand meaning, there is no cosmic narrative, maybe all I want to do is just play video games. And you know what? That's fine. If someone wants to do that, that's their life, that's their choice, that's their journey. And so yes, some people might take it to a place and just be lazy, but you know what? I don't care. Let him do it. You know, as George Carlin once said, he's like, show me someone sitting around, you know, hitting a bong and touching himself, and I'll show you someone who's not causing any trouble. George Carlin was actually very secretly, I think, a post-nihilist or absurdist. He was on the edge of post-nihilism but he was still very much mired in absurdism. But he had a point. Show me someone who's doing nothing with his life except smoke and pot and playing video games and I'll show you someone who's not causing any trouble. And then finally, reliance on intrinsic motivation. I do emphasize intrinsic motivation and of course there will always be some extrinsic motivations as well, right? Climate change, economics, the need to work in order to get money, in order to feed yourself or whatever. But with all that aside, we all have plenty of intrinsic motivation. Hunger, right? Hunger will drive you to do a lot of stuff. Loneliness will drive you to do a lot of stuff. Those frameworks that I showed, those are very comprehensive frameworks about your intrinsic needs and desires and biological imperatives. And so because you have those needs, some of the struggles and your journey is inevitable. You're going to have to feed yourself one way or another unless you just sit there and starve to death. Right? And so by looking at the ground truth of what remains true at all times for all humans, then you can still say like, okay, well, yes, maybe we get rid of those cosmic narratives, those extrinsic motivations. There's plenty of intrinsic motivation for everyone to go around. Okay. And I wanted to share this idea to reinforce the idea that post-nihilism does not intrinsically run contrary to traditional masculinity. And so I picked one of the most over-the-top, hyper-masculine role models of all time, Teddy Roosevelt. So Teddy Roosevelt, for some background, he suffered severe asthma as a child. He was incredibly frail, timid, and anxious. But through hard work, exercise, and challenging himself, he became what he called a bull moose. So he's a real tough guy. And he invented this philosophy called the strenuous life, which you know promoted hard work, perseverance, and physical toughness. And he was also incredibly energetic. He advocated for confronting life's challenges head-on rather than seeking comfort and ease and what I realized as I've learned about Teddy Roosevelt is that because he struggled so much he just became so comfortable with the challenge, with his own journey of overcoming anxiety and his timidity and his frailty. And so as he so as a default set of behaviors and beliefs, it's like, well, he could wallow in anxiety and frailty, or he could fight it. And so then through that transformative experience, he basically, with the strenuous life, he was describing his own life. His own life was strenuous life, he was describing his own life. His own life was strenuous and he developed that sense of tenacity by confronting his own struggles and confronting his own problems and overcoming them. And so while, you know, post-nihilism does talk about your individual journey, your individual experience, and finding value in that, in that which is uniquely yours. That is why I picked this to say that if the strenuous life resonates with you, which a friend of mine does, he's a member of TSL, if it resonates with you, that is fine. Like, that is one model. I'm not saying that the strenuous life is the only model of post-nihilism. I'm just saying it is a pro-masculinity model of life that dovetails very nicely with post-nihilism and So again, it has that emphasis on your individual journey and your individual challenges. And so with all that being said Meaning is not necessary. I hope you got a lot out of this I hope that this helped prime the pump and will get you thinking about how humanity is changing and will continue to change in light of all the cultural and philosophical and technological changes that we're going through. Thanks for watching, cheers. years.", "chunks": [{"timestamp": [0.0, 5.6], "text": " Good morning everybody, David Shapiro here. Today's video is going to be on"}, {"timestamp": [5.6, 11.16], "text": " both of my channels and the reason is because paying attention to the"}, {"timestamp": [11.16, 18.24], "text": " conversation, really the impact of artificial intelligence and how it's"}, {"timestamp": [18.24, 26.24], "text": " going to change the world is people are coming around to understand that something big is happening."}, {"timestamp": [26.8, 35.76], "text": " And as I've pointed out in other videos and online, there has never been a case of a new technology"}, {"timestamp": [36.4, 42.56], "text": " not transforming human society. And what I mean by that is from the advent of writing,"}, {"timestamp": [42.56, 47.48], "text": " the printing press, radio, television, and internet, every"}, {"timestamp": [47.48, 53.9], "text": " time we invent a new information technology, it fundamentally changes the human condition."}, {"timestamp": [53.9, 57.08], "text": " And I don't mean like, you know, we're no longer human, but it changes the way that"}, {"timestamp": [57.08, 62.48], "text": " we interact with the world and it changes the way that we interact with each other."}, {"timestamp": [62.48, 67.6], "text": " And artificial intelligence is no different. Whether or not AI ever becomes sentient"}, {"timestamp": [67.6, 70.32], "text": " or autonomous or AGI or super intelligence,"}, {"timestamp": [70.32, 72.16], "text": " that's not the point."}, {"timestamp": [72.16, 75.74], "text": " Artificial intelligence is already changing the landscape."}, {"timestamp": [75.74, 78.96], "text": " There have been mass layoffs due to AI."}, {"timestamp": [78.96, 83.52], "text": " There are cases of basically students"}, {"timestamp": [83.52, 86.72], "text": " just entirely relying on artificial intelligence to do their homework."}, {"timestamp": [87.36, 92.96], "text": " So it's already changing the philosophical and information landscape of humanity."}, {"timestamp": [93.76, 99.76], "text": " And one question that keeps coming up is, you know, well what happens if we all lose our jobs?"}, {"timestamp": [99.76, 104.72], "text": " You know, Dave, you talk about post-labor economics, but you know there are people that would,"}, {"timestamp": [104.72, 105.92], "text": " you know, say they'd rather die than, you know, post-labor economics, but there are people that would say they'd"}, {"timestamp": [105.92, 111.24], "text": " rather die than lose the dignity of labor."}, {"timestamp": [111.24, 116.16], "text": " And we are also in the midst of what I call a nihilistic crisis, which we'll unpack"}, {"timestamp": [116.16, 117.6], "text": " later."}, {"timestamp": [117.6, 122.88], "text": " But I just wanted to provide some context, some flavor as to why this video is coming"}, {"timestamp": [122.88, 127.5], "text": " out now and where we're going."}, {"timestamp": [127.5, 133.46], "text": " And basically the reason is that humanity is about to change drastically."}, {"timestamp": [133.46, 138.94], "text": " And this philosophy, I believe, is a necessary contribution to the conversation."}, {"timestamp": [138.94, 141.66], "text": " I'm not going to say that this is the next universal philosophy."}, {"timestamp": [141.66, 145.52], "text": " It's just an idea to put out there. And I think that it'll be very"}, {"timestamp": [145.52, 153.2], "text": " helpful as humanity navigates these coming changes. So post-Nihilism, the central axiom is"}, {"timestamp": [153.2, 160.56], "text": " meaning is not necessary. So let's dive in. Here's a basically table of contents for the rest of the"}, {"timestamp": [160.56, 169.18], "text": " video. First, we're going to talk, we're going to tackle the history of Western philosophy. It's going to be a very high-level overview. I'm not"}, {"timestamp": [169.18, 173.22], "text": " going to bore you to death with all the details. Then we'll move on and talk"}, {"timestamp": [173.22, 176.9], "text": " about more contemporary movements such as the rise of secularism and the rise"}, {"timestamp": [176.9, 181.7], "text": " of nihilism. We'll talk about the death of meaning which kind of leads us to"}, {"timestamp": [181.7, 186.48], "text": " where we are now. We'll talk about postmodernism and absolute truth."}, {"timestamp": [186.48, 189.48], "text": " And this is an example of how technology"}, {"timestamp": [189.48, 193.04], "text": " has changed our interaction with philosophy and each other."}, {"timestamp": [193.04, 195.72], "text": " Because basically, the rise of mass media"}, {"timestamp": [195.72, 200.68], "text": " challenged any notion of what does truth even mean."}, {"timestamp": [200.68, 204.24], "text": " And of course, now we are in a post-truth era."}, {"timestamp": [204.24, 205.96], "text": " And then number five, we're going to"}, {"timestamp": [205.96, 211.44], "text": " talk about a few contemporary thinkers. Some of them are still alive, some of"}, {"timestamp": [211.44, 217.04], "text": " them aren't, but basically we'll talk, I'll address where other people are"}, {"timestamp": [217.04, 222.12], "text": " taking the conversation and by virtue of that contrast I'll show you how I'm"}, {"timestamp": [222.12, 228.0], "text": " taking it in a different direction. Then I'll unpack the meaning crisis or what I call the nihilistic"}, {"timestamp": [228.0, 232.92], "text": " crisis, which I have articulated, I believe I've articulated it more clearly"}, {"timestamp": [232.92, 238.56], "text": " than other people have. Number seven, we'll talk about moving beyond nihilism."}, {"timestamp": [238.56, 242.74], "text": " How do you get out of the quagmire of nihilism? Number eight, I'll define"}, {"timestamp": [242.74, 250.26], "text": " post-nihilism a little bit more clearly. Number nine, I'll give you the background, how I came up with post-nihilism. Number"}, {"timestamp": [250.26, 254.52], "text": " ten, I'll share some of the influences, some of the global influences that I had"}, {"timestamp": [254.52, 260.18], "text": " that kind of informed post-nihilism. Number eleven, we'll talk about letting"}, {"timestamp": [260.18, 265.1], "text": " go of the demand for meaning because this is the primary transition from whatever"}, {"timestamp": [265.1, 270.0], "text": " worldview you have right now to a post-nihilistic worldview."}, {"timestamp": [270.0, 273.76], "text": " Number 12, we'll unpack some of the principles of post-nihilism, and this is not an exhaustive"}, {"timestamp": [273.76, 278.92], "text": " list, but it's one thing just to keep in mind that like, okay, here are some downstream"}, {"timestamp": [278.92, 281.96], "text": " derivative effects of post-nihilism."}, {"timestamp": [281.96, 290.36], "text": " And then finally, 13, we'll talk about some of the criticisms, some of the things that you might just say, well, what about this? Okay,"}, {"timestamp": [290.36, 296.04], "text": " so let's dive in. As promised, here is a very high-level overview of the history"}, {"timestamp": [296.04, 302.4], "text": " of Western philosophy. So it starts, the Western tradition starts in ancient"}, {"timestamp": [302.4, 307.4], "text": " Greece, specifically Athens, with Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle."}, {"timestamp": [307.4, 311.3], "text": " Most of you have at least heard a few things from these guys."}, {"timestamp": [311.3, 316.9], "text": " Socratic method, Plato's dialogues, and the Republic, that sort of thing."}, {"timestamp": [316.9, 320.1], "text": " Aristotle said something along the lines of,"}, {"timestamp": [320.1, 323.9], "text": " it is the mark of an educated mind to entertain an idea without accepting it,"}, {"timestamp": [323.9, 325.64], "text": " otherwise known"}, {"timestamp": [325.64, 328.48], "text": " as analytic third space."}, {"timestamp": [328.48, 334.2], "text": " Moving forward, the Romans adopted a tremendous amount of influence from the Greeks, but they"}, {"timestamp": [334.2, 336.36], "text": " took it a different direction."}, {"timestamp": [336.36, 341.92], "text": " So particularly Marcus Aurelius really set the tone for Stoicism, which Stoicism is not"}, {"timestamp": [341.92, 348.0], "text": " about suppressing emotions, it's about recognizing emotions and then just choosing to be rational anyways."}, {"timestamp": [348.0, 356.0], "text": " A lot of people misinterpret stoicism to be ignore emotions, suppress emotions, and that's what I call actually toxic stoicism."}, {"timestamp": [356.0, 361.0], "text": " So anyways, don't want to get lost on that tangent, focusing on the purpose."}, {"timestamp": [361.0, 366.24], "text": " Moving forward to medieval times, Thomas Aquinas basically"}, {"timestamp": [366.24, 371.52], "text": " came up with the idea of natural law. This kind of set the stage for"}, {"timestamp": [371.52, 376.76], "text": " moving more towards intellectualism and empiricism and even set the stage for"}, {"timestamp": [376.76, 381.92], "text": " science. Basically he said that like humanity and things abide by some"}, {"timestamp": [381.92, 389.44], "text": " kind of natural law. He said that natural law was handed down by God, but, you know, okay, whatever."}, {"timestamp": [389.44, 395.36], "text": " Moving forward to the Renaissance, this was the rebirth of learning, of intellectualism,"}, {"timestamp": [395.36, 400.6], "text": " and people during the Renaissance actually very deliberately went back and cherry-picked"}, {"timestamp": [400.6, 404.38], "text": " stuff out of the Roman and Greek periods of time."}, {"timestamp": [404.38, 408.64], "text": " And this is also where they came up with what we today call the university system,"}, {"timestamp": [408.64, 414.64], "text": " which the entire idea of the university was to create a universal man or someone who"}, {"timestamp": [414.64, 418.16], "text": " knows everything that there is to know at the time. And actually, one thing that I learned"}, {"timestamp": [418.16, 423.76], "text": " recently is that when universities first were created, everyone took every class."}, {"timestamp": [424.32, 427.92], "text": " But we now, of course, there's too many classes, you couldn't take everyone, so you have to"}, {"timestamp": [427.92, 429.88], "text": " specialize."}, {"timestamp": [429.88, 433.42], "text": " Moving forward beyond the Renaissance, there's Enlightenment."}, {"timestamp": [433.42, 439.48], "text": " So the Enlightenment was kind of, again, a development of that, where you go from natural"}, {"timestamp": [439.48, 446.46], "text": " law to more intellectualism, and then that's where we start to set the stage for empiricism, rationalism,"}, {"timestamp": [446.46, 448.64], "text": " and the invention of the scientific method."}, {"timestamp": [448.64, 453.64], "text": " So again, we're moving away from the more religious view"}, {"timestamp": [454.56, 456.64], "text": " and towards a more secular view,"}, {"timestamp": [456.64, 458.92], "text": " which we'll unpack again in a little bit."}, {"timestamp": [460.1, 461.84], "text": " Moving forward into the 19th century,"}, {"timestamp": [461.84, 465.6], "text": " this is where existentialism and nihilism first"}, {"timestamp": [465.6, 469.3], "text": " came to be, as well as transcendentalism and manifest destiny."}, {"timestamp": [469.3, 474.16], "text": " So as people had a less and less religious worldview and a more secular worldview that"}, {"timestamp": [474.16, 480.6], "text": " was anchored in the material world, people are like, well, you know, if the directives"}, {"timestamp": [480.6, 485.32], "text": " of our religion are less important than maybe like just we can do"}, {"timestamp": [485.32, 491.82], "text": " whatever we want. And so nihilism and transcendentalism in my opinion are kind"}, {"timestamp": [491.82, 495.96], "text": " of two sides of the same coin. Nihilism says there is no meaning, there is no"}, {"timestamp": [495.96, 499.72], "text": " purpose, nothing has any intrinsic meaning, and transcendentalism says go"}, {"timestamp": [499.72, 507.68], "text": " for it. And then moving into the 20th century existentialism, it kind of kept going down"}, {"timestamp": [507.68, 514.68], "text": " and it became absurdism, but also we saw the creation of postmodernism, which we'll unpack"}, {"timestamp": [514.68, 520.54], "text": " in a minute. So anyways, this is a very, very high-level snapshot of the history of Western"}, {"timestamp": [520.54, 529.12], "text": " philosophy, just to provide a little bit of historical context. Okay, so now we need to really talk about the rise of secularism."}, {"timestamp": [529.12, 535.84], "text": " So the Enlightenment and the Industrial Revolution focused on human reason and science and empirical"}, {"timestamp": [535.84, 540.88], "text": " evidence which also dovetailed with the decline of religious authority."}, {"timestamp": [542.16, 547.44], "text": " We saw, you know, the French Revolution was in part about the control"}, {"timestamp": [547.44, 551.36], "text": " of religion and the rejection of religion and France became, very"}, {"timestamp": [551.36, 556.72], "text": " deliberately became a secular nation. America became a secular nation and"}, {"timestamp": [556.72, 563.44], "text": " since then most Western powers have become purely secular nations. Not"}, {"timestamp": [563.44, 567.12], "text": " entirely and not universally, but by and large"}, {"timestamp": [567.12, 573.8], "text": " nation-states have become more secular. This also dovetailed with a"}, {"timestamp": [573.8, 578.84], "text": " shift towards nihilism, and so whether or not someone believes in nihilism or"}, {"timestamp": [578.84, 586.92], "text": " even knows what nihilism means, this has become so deeply embedded and ingrained in Western society by"}, {"timestamp": [586.92, 593.8], "text": " virtue, by extension of empiricism and other things because science is... well"}, {"timestamp": [593.8, 598.68], "text": " here, the growth of materialist philosophies and science's inability to"}, {"timestamp": [598.68, 603.2], "text": " provide life's ultimate meaning. Science is not able to tell you why we exist,"}, {"timestamp": [603.2, 605.84], "text": " what is our purpose, but our"}, {"timestamp": [605.84, 611.6], "text": " fixation, our preoccupation with science means that by virtue of favoring science"}, {"timestamp": [611.6, 616.36], "text": " and empiricism and rationality, we don't have an answer to life's purpose. Why are"}, {"timestamp": [616.36, 620.08], "text": " we here? You know, and this of course Douglas Adams with Hitchhiker's Guide to"}, {"timestamp": [620.08, 626.96], "text": " the Galaxy made a parody of this, you know, what is what, you know, life, what is the meaning of life, the universe,"}, {"timestamp": [626.96, 629.16], "text": " and everything, and the answer is 42."}, {"timestamp": [629.16, 634.72], "text": " That is an absurdist take on the nihilistic crisis."}, {"timestamp": [634.72, 639.02], "text": " And so it has just become so deeply embedded in our culture that we just kind of have this"}, {"timestamp": [639.02, 644.72], "text": " belief, even many religious people kind of are like, eh, you know, maybe."}, {"timestamp": [644.72, 645.48], "text": " Some people believe that they have some kind of cosmic meaning yeah, you know, maybe. You know, some people believe"}, {"timestamp": [645.48, 649.04], "text": " that they have some kind of cosmic meaning, but even a lot of religious"}, {"timestamp": [649.04, 654.76], "text": " people, nihilism is so deeply embedded in our society that you can't really escape"}, {"timestamp": [654.76, 663.58], "text": " it. And so this has had a few consequences in society, namely the"}, {"timestamp": [663.58, 665.04], "text": " existential crisis, searching for meaning in society, namely the existential crisis,"}, {"timestamp": [665.04, 670.56], "text": " searching for meaning in a secular world is really difficult, and then of course there's a bunch of"}, {"timestamp": [671.68, 674.72], "text": " moral relativism where it's like, well, your truth is different from my truth,"}, {"timestamp": [675.36, 681.2], "text": " there are no moral absolutes, and so basically we've kind of shattered everything and there's"}, {"timestamp": [681.2, 685.48], "text": " no answers, there's just pieces everywhere. And then"}, {"timestamp": [685.48, 690.14], "text": " so this ultimately it's a double-edged sword. This is kind of the"}, {"timestamp": [690.14, 694.48], "text": " bottom line, literally and figuratively the bottom line, is that this freedom"}, {"timestamp": [694.48, 698.84], "text": " from religious doctrine is a double-edged sword. On the one hand it"}, {"timestamp": [698.84, 703.76], "text": " liberates you from dogmatic thinking. On the other hand it doesn't provide an"}, {"timestamp": [703.76, 705.52], "text": " answer and so then"}, {"timestamp": [705.52, 708.34], "text": " you're just kind of lost. You throw off the shackles, but now where do you go?"}, {"timestamp": [708.34, 712.16], "text": " This is also called the problem of choice. If you can choose to do anything,"}, {"timestamp": [712.16, 716.36], "text": " how do you choose what to do? And evidence is that human brains actually,"}, {"timestamp": [716.36, 721.28], "text": " we don't do well when you have infinite choice. And so this gives rise to things"}, {"timestamp": [721.28, 725.4], "text": " like in The Avengers when Loki says,"}, {"timestamp": [725.4, 728.36], "text": " like, Neil, you crave subjugation."}, {"timestamp": [728.36, 732.2], "text": " What he's actually tapping into is humanity's inability"}, {"timestamp": [732.2, 736.16], "text": " to kind of choose for itself when we have too many options."}, {"timestamp": [736.16, 739.04], "text": " I'm not saying that that's an absolute truth,"}, {"timestamp": [739.04, 741.44], "text": " because many people can choose their own direction."}, {"timestamp": [741.44, 743.6], "text": " But if everyone's going in different directions,"}, {"timestamp": [743.6, 746.96], "text": " we kind of look like ants that have been scattered from an outside perspective."}, {"timestamp": [746.96, 751.7], "text": " And I'm not saying that that's a bad thing. Exploration is good. Anyways,"}, {"timestamp": [751.7, 758.1], "text": " getting lost on a tangent. Okay, death of meaning. So here's the problem."}, {"timestamp": [758.1, 764.64], "text": " Is that the need for meaning, the idea that there is a cosmic meaning, that"}, {"timestamp": [764.64, 765.52], "text": " there is a cosmic purpose, that there is a cosmic"}, {"timestamp": [765.52, 772.0], "text": " purpose, a universal purpose is so deeply embedded in Western culture from 2000 years,"}, {"timestamp": [772.0, 778.56], "text": " well actually, 6000 years of Judaism, 2000 years of Christianity, and 1500, 1400 years"}, {"timestamp": [778.56, 779.92], "text": " of Islam."}, {"timestamp": [779.92, 785.92], "text": " The idea that there is a cosmic entity that confers meaning and purpose is so deeply"}, {"timestamp": [785.92, 790.12], "text": " embedded in our culture that whether or not you're religious you are completely"}, {"timestamp": [790.12, 795.2], "text": " inculcated in this narrative, in this grand narrative, and it's impossible to"}, {"timestamp": [795.2, 799.72], "text": " break out of that until you are aware of that narrative. And so the idea that"}, {"timestamp": [799.72, 806.3], "text": " there is some cosmic truth is manifested in the pursuit of objective truth and"}, {"timestamp": [806.3, 811.26], "text": " morality. The idea that, well, we can't escape the notion that God is the"}, {"timestamp": [811.26, 816.3], "text": " ultimate arbiter of truth, facts, and morality, and so then, well, if"}, {"timestamp": [816.3, 822.1], "text": " you get rid of God, then what gives out objective truth and morality? And"}, {"timestamp": [822.1, 830.62], "text": " then this need for meaning is then continued to be sustained by virtue of all the philosophers"}, {"timestamp": [830.62, 836.74], "text": " who may or may not have been aware of their own cultural bias, their own cultural upbringing."}, {"timestamp": [836.74, 842.7], "text": " Because when you study Eastern philosophy and the history of China, Japan, Korea, other"}, {"timestamp": [842.7, 846.24], "text": " places, you see that a lot of these narratives are just"}, {"timestamp": [846.24, 852.24], "text": " missing and their worldview is very different from ours."}, {"timestamp": [852.24, 860.4], "text": " So then you have another point of conflict is scientific understanding basically undermines"}, {"timestamp": [860.4, 863.68], "text": " all of those traditional narratives."}, {"timestamp": [863.68, 867.7], "text": " So for instance, Charles Darwin with the theory of evolution"}, {"timestamp": [867.7, 870.46], "text": " completely challenges the idea of human exceptionalism,"}, {"timestamp": [870.46, 872.7], "text": " which again, remember that many religious narratives"}, {"timestamp": [872.7, 876.58], "text": " say that humans are preordained by God to be special,"}, {"timestamp": [876.58, 877.98], "text": " to be in God's image, and it's like,"}, {"timestamp": [877.98, 880.02], "text": " well, there's not really any evidence of that,"}, {"timestamp": [880.02, 881.76], "text": " other than the fact that we are apparently"}, {"timestamp": [881.76, 884.02], "text": " the smartest creatures on the planet,"}, {"timestamp": [884.02, 886.3], "text": " but okay, we're also highly destructive."}, {"timestamp": [886.3, 891.14], "text": " So if we're modeled after God, what does that say about God?"}, {"timestamp": [891.14, 898.98], "text": " And then psychology, Freud, Jung, and everyone in the 20th century basically, and neuroscience"}, {"timestamp": [898.98, 902.34], "text": " is like, we actually don't know ourselves as well as we think we do."}, {"timestamp": [902.34, 909.28], "text": " We're not the rational creatures that we that we are. A friend of mine from my writing group said we are purely"}, {"timestamp": [909.28, 916.32], "text": " emotional creatures who paper over our decisions post-facto with a veneer of"}, {"timestamp": [916.32, 922.4], "text": " logic and reason, which it's like yeah that's about it. So we if you think that"}, {"timestamp": [922.4, 926.8], "text": " you're irrational, you're not. you are an emotional creature that has a wallpaper of rationality"}, {"timestamp": [927.44, 933.44], "text": " Overtop a hot mess of emotions and and personal narratives and experience and ego"}, {"timestamp": [934.08, 940.58], "text": " and then of course physics cosmology quantum physics theory of gravity and all that stuff basically like"}, {"timestamp": [941.06, 942.56], "text": " What even is reality?"}, {"timestamp": [942.56, 945.22], "text": " There's the measurement problem and so the more we"}, {"timestamp": [945.22, 951.88], "text": " learn, the more any foundation, any solid foundation of the notion of reality or"}, {"timestamp": [951.88, 959.56], "text": " objective absolute truths is very difficult. And so then this leads to the"}, {"timestamp": [959.56, 965.48], "text": " death of meaning through things like postmodernism, which postmodernism came"}, {"timestamp": [965.48, 970.24], "text": " around in the 1960s if I remember correctly, which basically said like all"}, {"timestamp": [970.24, 974.28], "text": " of our grand narratives, all of our meta narratives are not true. Everything that"}, {"timestamp": [974.28, 979.4], "text": " we think we know about the way the world works, such as God created everything or"}, {"timestamp": [979.4, 984.48], "text": " that humans are exceptional, basically that Western worldview started really"}, {"timestamp": [984.48, 985.2], "text": " crumbling in"}, {"timestamp": [985.2, 988.96], "text": " the 60s, which in the grand scheme of things for philosophical movements"}, {"timestamp": [988.96, 994.4], "text": " that's a really short period of time. And so all of the grand narratives about the"}, {"timestamp": [994.4, 998.36], "text": " stories that we tell ourselves about our place in the universe and why the"}, {"timestamp": [998.36, 1002.96], "text": " universe exists and why and how and everything purpose meaning are all"}, {"timestamp": [1002.96, 1006.62], "text": " crumbling and eroding. There's a lot of inertia, which is why they're still here."}, {"timestamp": [1007.26, 1011.46], "text": " But, uh, when, as it's decaying,"}, {"timestamp": [1011.5, 1013.38], "text": " it's not been replaced by anything."}, {"timestamp": [1014.18, 1015.96], "text": " And that leads us to where we are today."}, {"timestamp": [1016.34, 1019.94], "text": " Postmodernism and post truth era. So, uh,"}, {"timestamp": [1019.98, 1024.22], "text": " postmodernism as simply put as I can is a,"}, {"timestamp": [1024.22, 1026.4], "text": " is the philosophical and cultural movement"}, {"timestamp": [1026.4, 1028.24], "text": " that questions foundational assumptions"}, {"timestamp": [1028.24, 1029.68], "text": " and grand narratives."}, {"timestamp": [1029.68, 1032.24], "text": " Basically, nothing is sacred,"}, {"timestamp": [1032.24, 1035.12], "text": " everything can be scrutinized,"}, {"timestamp": [1035.12, 1040.12], "text": " and this basically creates relativism, skepticism,"}, {"timestamp": [1040.3, 1043.56], "text": " and in an ideal world, promotes discourse."}, {"timestamp": [1043.56, 1046.92], "text": " But what happens with internet is we end up with echo chambers."}, {"timestamp": [1046.92, 1050.56], "text": " And so then it's like, well, my truth is different from your truth."}, {"timestamp": [1050.72, 1053.24], "text": " You know, we can choose alternative facts."}, {"timestamp": [1053.24, 1057.14], "text": " So this is all a downstream effect of postmodernism."}, {"timestamp": [1057.14, 1065.76], "text": " Some of the most influential thinkers, Derrida with deconstructionism, Foucault with power"}, {"timestamp": [1065.76, 1071.24], "text": " knowledge and the concept of discourse saying that like hey the the importance"}, {"timestamp": [1071.24, 1076.32], "text": " of talking through things is is high. I think that that's actually too low-level"}, {"timestamp": [1076.32, 1079.92], "text": " that's a tactic not a strategy and that's why I'm talking about post-"}, {"timestamp": [1079.92, 1084.44], "text": " nihilism. Anyways, so some of the key themes of post-modernism is the"}, {"timestamp": [1084.44, 1086.28], "text": " rejection of absolute truth and universal"}, {"timestamp": [1086.28, 1087.28], "text": " morals."}, {"timestamp": [1087.28, 1091.32], "text": " This is that relativism that I was talking about, which is, you know, your truth is different"}, {"timestamp": [1091.32, 1092.4], "text": " from my truth."}, {"timestamp": [1092.4, 1095.76], "text": " I believe in alternative facts."}, {"timestamp": [1095.76, 1097.64], "text": " Emphasis on local and specific narratives."}, {"timestamp": [1097.64, 1103.02], "text": " So this is what I mean by local and specific narratives, where you can have an epistemic"}, {"timestamp": [1103.02, 1109.4], "text": " tribe that believes one set of things, like flat earthers, that's an epistemic tribe that believes one set of things like flat earthers, that's an epistemic tribe, that they have their own set of"}, {"timestamp": [1109.4, 1115.36], "text": " beliefs and evidence and facts and narratives versus a more global"}, {"timestamp": [1115.36, 1120.92], "text": " perspective. And then of course one of the things, and this is what some people"}, {"timestamp": [1120.92, 1130.6], "text": " like Jordan Peterson complain about, is the fluidity of identities. If you throw out the rigid, dogmatic way of thinking, like, there are only two genders,"}, {"timestamp": [1130.6, 1135.84], "text": " you should only be heterosexual, then of course you say, okay, well actually, when you look"}, {"timestamp": [1135.84, 1141.32], "text": " closely at other cultures, because it's really quite absurd when you look at people that"}, {"timestamp": [1141.32, 1146.4], "text": " are anti-trans, it's like, look at any number of other cultures around the world"}, {"timestamp": [1146.4, 1152.1], "text": " that they just accept that gender fluidity is not a binary, and they never have questioned it."}, {"timestamp": [1152.1, 1158.6], "text": " And so like, then you have this very imperialistic Western white man's burden idea that it's like,"}, {"timestamp": [1158.6, 1163.1], "text": " oh, well, I have to go civilize these other cultures because clearly they're uncivilized,"}, {"timestamp": [1163.1, 1170.74], "text": " while I'm not even unpacking my own assumptions. So anyways, one of the benefits of"}, {"timestamp": [1170.74, 1174.66], "text": " postmodernism is the"}, {"timestamp": [1174.66, 1180.5], "text": " recognition that there is no single narrative, that Victorian Imperial"}, {"timestamp": [1180.5, 1186.62], "text": " England maybe didn't have the right narrative, and so then it's like well, let's unpack some of the"}, {"timestamp": [1187.06, 1188.88], "text": " individual differences and"}, {"timestamp": [1188.88, 1196.16], "text": " marginalized groups and different ways of thinking but the other side of that coin is that if we respect everyone's different ways of thinking"}, {"timestamp": [1196.8, 1201.8], "text": " some people can be very destructive or can just be willfully ignorant of"}, {"timestamp": [1202.92, 1205.08], "text": " Facts and process and other things and they kind"}, {"timestamp": [1205.08, 1210.32], "text": " of create their own worldview which again double-edged sword. All right so"}, {"timestamp": [1210.32, 1216.72], "text": " some contemporary thinkers there's John Vervaeke who is he's the one who codified"}, {"timestamp": [1216.72, 1223.76], "text": " the meaning crisis and one of the things that he says is you know again dialogue"}, {"timestamp": [1223.76, 1226.24], "text": " practice of authentic dialogue. So he didn't"}, {"timestamp": [1226.24, 1230.88], "text": " invent that, but he's carrying that torch, which again, dialogue. That is why the"}, {"timestamp": [1230.88, 1235.36], "text": " internet exists, right? That's why we make YouTube videos and Twitter threads about"}, {"timestamp": [1235.36, 1240.24], "text": " this stuff. And another thing is that he is grounded in cognitive science and"}, {"timestamp": [1240.24, 1245.16], "text": " ancient traditions. So this is a common theme and this is something that"}, {"timestamp": [1245.16, 1250.96], "text": " I even have in common with these guys. But now I look at Western and Eastern"}, {"timestamp": [1250.96, 1257.04], "text": " traditions and I also have knowledge and experience with traditions from the"}, {"timestamp": [1257.04, 1263.16], "text": " global South such as South America and Africa. Seraphim Rose, he was an Orthodox"}, {"timestamp": [1263.16, 1267.24], "text": " Christian monk who wrote Nihilism, the Root of the Revolution"}, {"timestamp": [1267.24, 1269.0], "text": " of the Modern Age."}, {"timestamp": [1269.0, 1272.8], "text": " Oh boy."}, {"timestamp": [1272.8, 1275.6], "text": " Talk about someone who hasn't unpacked their own baggage."}, {"timestamp": [1275.6, 1287.72], "text": " This is someone who joined the post-modernist movement in the 40s, 50s, and 60s, I believe, but ended up an alcoholic, literally like laying on the"}, {"timestamp": [1287.72, 1292.3], "text": " floor screaming because he was angry about being abandoned by God."}, {"timestamp": [1292.3, 1299.52], "text": " And so then he did a 180 and reversed course and became that Orthodox Christian monk and"}, {"timestamp": [1299.52, 1305.64], "text": " saying, ah, this is clearly the solution because I feel better. So basically he was unable to escape"}, {"timestamp": [1305.64, 1310.16], "text": " his cultural indoctrination, let's say."}, {"timestamp": [1310.16, 1312.24], "text": " So he was not able to escape nihilism,"}, {"timestamp": [1312.24, 1314.24], "text": " instead he had to go backwards."}, {"timestamp": [1314.24, 1316.84], "text": " And this is the danger of,"}, {"timestamp": [1316.84, 1318.2], "text": " and this is why I'm bringing this up,"}, {"timestamp": [1318.2, 1321.8], "text": " is because this is the danger of looking to the past"}, {"timestamp": [1321.8, 1323.04], "text": " for answers."}, {"timestamp": [1323.04, 1328.16], "text": " You can get inspiration, ideas from the past, but humanity cannot go"}, {"timestamp": [1328.16, 1329.52], "text": " backwards."}, {"timestamp": [1329.52, 1335.02], "text": " And of course, this is another thing Jordan Peterson also advocates for going backwards."}, {"timestamp": [1335.02, 1338.12], "text": " He talks about the importance of myths and religious narratives."}, {"timestamp": [1338.12, 1344.6], "text": " Again, this is basically standing in stark contrast to nihilism and postmodernism where"}, {"timestamp": [1344.6, 1345.0], "text": " it's like, well,"}, {"timestamp": [1345.16, 1350.92], "text": " we threw out all of these grand narratives, all these meta narratives, but maybe we should just go back to them."}, {"timestamp": [1351.68, 1356.32], "text": " And so of course, like if you're just advocating to literally just go straight backwards,"}, {"timestamp": [1356.96, 1363.12], "text": " that's not really gonna work. And then of course he emphasizes personal responsibility and the pursuit of truth,"}, {"timestamp": [1363.24, 1367.02], "text": " but then of course when people pursue their own truth he says well not like that, that's not what"}, {"timestamp": [1367.02, 1371.64], "text": " I meant. You need to adhere to traditional power structures. And so"}, {"timestamp": [1371.64, 1377.4], "text": " these guys have not really moved forward and I'm not criticizing John Vervacchi,"}, {"timestamp": [1377.4, 1382.32], "text": " I've watched some of his stuff, I just disagree with the direction forward, but"}, {"timestamp": [1382.32, 1385.72], "text": " certainly some of these other guys I definitely disagree with."}, {"timestamp": [1385.72, 1390.14], "text": " Okay, so the meaning crisis or what I call the nihilistic crisis."}, {"timestamp": [1390.14, 1393.3], "text": " It has four primary pillars."}, {"timestamp": [1393.3, 1395.12], "text": " First is childhood abandonment."}, {"timestamp": [1395.12, 1400.44], "text": " This is the universal experience of childhood trauma, whether it's from mild emotional neglect"}, {"timestamp": [1400.44, 1403.56], "text": " to severe existential terror."}, {"timestamp": [1403.56, 1405.48], "text": " All children experience these things at some"}, {"timestamp": [1405.48, 1409.92], "text": " point in time, whether you know when children first become aware of death"}, {"timestamp": [1409.92, 1415.48], "text": " they often will have a bit of a crisis and then of course there are all"}, {"timestamp": [1415.48, 1421.52], "text": " parents fail in some ways, right? Whether they are profoundly abusive parents or"}, {"timestamp": [1421.52, 1426.1], "text": " even well-meaning parents who just do something wrong for"}, {"timestamp": [1426.1, 1431.26], "text": " whatever reasons. But all parents fall short of perfect in some ways."}, {"timestamp": [1431.26, 1438.7], "text": " And these failures are often reinforced and perpetuated and unaddressed due to"}, {"timestamp": [1438.7, 1442.14], "text": " whether it's religious narratives, because a lot of religions, a lot of"}, {"timestamp": [1442.14, 1448.24], "text": " churches will basically instruct parents on the correct way of raising children. There's social paradigms,"}, {"timestamp": [1448.24, 1451.96], "text": " there's family paradigms, and then of course there's also intergenerational"}, {"timestamp": [1451.96, 1458.36], "text": " trauma, which is very widespread in the world. But anyways, the result of"}, {"timestamp": [1458.36, 1464.44], "text": " childhood abandonment, which again is an intrinsic part of life, is that if it"}, {"timestamp": [1464.44, 1466.88], "text": " is not addressed, if it is not corrected,"}, {"timestamp": [1466.88, 1473.44], "text": " it will harm someone's sense of self-worth, security, and attachment, but it also deeply"}, {"timestamp": [1473.44, 1479.6], "text": " changes their worldview when it goes unaddressed. The second pillar is social abandonment."}, {"timestamp": [1479.6, 1485.0], "text": " So what we see in today's society is that emphasis on personal responsibility, rugged"}, {"timestamp": [1485.0, 1492.0], "text": " individualism and self-sufficiency, and often this comes at the expense of or directly antagonistic"}, {"timestamp": [1492.0, 1494.04], "text": " to community."}, {"timestamp": [1494.04, 1496.04], "text": " I can't rely on anyone else."}, {"timestamp": [1496.04, 1497.12], "text": " Everyone else is an idiot."}, {"timestamp": [1497.12, 1500.54], "text": " I need to take care of myself because no one will help me and I'm not going to help anyone"}, {"timestamp": [1500.54, 1501.54], "text": " else."}, {"timestamp": [1501.54, 1507.32], "text": " That is the narrative that has emerged in part because of the postmodernist take"}, {"timestamp": [1507.32, 1510.52], "text": " on the getting rid of grand narratives."}, {"timestamp": [1510.52, 1511.84], "text": " We're not all Americans."}, {"timestamp": [1511.84, 1514.24], "text": " The American identity is gone, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1514.24, 1515.4], "text": " We don't look after each other"}, {"timestamp": [1515.4, 1517.4], "text": " because I don't know what my neighbor is up to."}, {"timestamp": [1517.4, 1518.32], "text": " I might not trust them."}, {"timestamp": [1518.32, 1520.64], "text": " They might disagree with me on politics or religion"}, {"timestamp": [1520.64, 1525.56], "text": " or whether or not we should allow abortions, whatever, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1525.56, 1532.84], "text": " And so because of this, because we are in a state of crisis, alienation and disconnection"}, {"timestamp": [1532.84, 1533.84], "text": " is the norm."}, {"timestamp": [1533.84, 1540.1], "text": " This also is being driven by the fact that we are more of a global species than ever."}, {"timestamp": [1540.1, 1546.68], "text": " And so you can hop on the internet, you can look on Twitter, YouTube, TikTok, everywhere. You can see horrible things happening"}, {"timestamp": [1546.68, 1548.38], "text": " around the entire world."}, {"timestamp": [1548.38, 1552.28], "text": " You can, at a glance, just scrolling through Reddit,"}, {"timestamp": [1552.28, 1556.04], "text": " you can see awful things happening all over the world,"}, {"timestamp": [1556.04, 1557.0], "text": " and you can see people"}, {"timestamp": [1557.0, 1559.28], "text": " with a fundamentally different worldview than you."}, {"timestamp": [1559.28, 1561.8], "text": " And so this just makes you kind of throw up your walls"}, {"timestamp": [1561.8, 1562.76], "text": " and say, you know what?"}, {"timestamp": [1562.76, 1564.72], "text": " The world is big and scary and confusing,"}, {"timestamp": [1564.72, 1566.52], "text": " and I can't handle it."}, {"timestamp": [1566.52, 1568.96], "text": " Right, and that's called mean world syndrome."}, {"timestamp": [1569.84, 1573.1], "text": " This whole problem is exacerbated by the fact"}, {"timestamp": [1573.1, 1576.6], "text": " that we have primate brains that have just simply"}, {"timestamp": [1576.6, 1580.0], "text": " not yet fully evolved to be global citizens."}, {"timestamp": [1580.0, 1583.48], "text": " Remember that as recently as a hundred years ago,"}, {"timestamp": [1583.48, 1587.74], "text": " most people lived and died within 10 miles of where they were born."}, {"timestamp": [1587.74, 1590.98], "text": " And of course, you might've read the newspaper,"}, {"timestamp": [1590.98, 1592.52], "text": " but your newspaper was a local paper"}, {"timestamp": [1592.52, 1594.94], "text": " and you might have just a tiny trickle feed"}, {"timestamp": [1594.94, 1597.3], "text": " of global news through the newspaper."}, {"timestamp": [1597.3, 1601.58], "text": " And so, two or three generations is not enough time"}, {"timestamp": [1601.58, 1608.28], "text": " for species to evolve to really comprehend and develop the cognitive faculties"}, {"timestamp": [1609.08, 1611.04], "text": " to be a global species."}, {"timestamp": [1611.04, 1613.0], "text": " And so this makes us paradoxically,"}, {"timestamp": [1613.0, 1614.5], "text": " even though we're more connected than ever,"}, {"timestamp": [1614.5, 1616.52], "text": " we saw this with Facebook."}, {"timestamp": [1616.52, 1618.8], "text": " Mark Zuckerberg had the idea of,"}, {"timestamp": [1618.8, 1621.6], "text": " hey, we create a social glue that allows everyone"}, {"timestamp": [1621.6, 1623.2], "text": " to communicate with everyone else,"}, {"timestamp": [1623.2, 1624.72], "text": " but it actually had the opposite effect"}, {"timestamp": [1624.72, 1625.84], "text": " because in part"}, {"timestamp": [1625.96, 1631.68], "text": " we are just not ready to be a global species. We need to be, the pressure is on, but"}, {"timestamp": [1632.4, 1638.26], "text": " this leads to the the perverse reaction of alienation, disconnection, and isolation."}, {"timestamp": [1639.4, 1643.68], "text": " The third pillar of the nihilistic crisis is cosmic abandonment."}, {"timestamp": [1643.68, 1649.08], "text": " And so this basically means that no matter how far we look out into the universe, we"}, {"timestamp": [1649.08, 1652.6], "text": " see a cold, indifferent cosmos."}, {"timestamp": [1652.6, 1657.36], "text": " This is a lonely universe that is apparently mostly empty."}, {"timestamp": [1657.36, 1663.2], "text": " Not only that, we've already had the rise of secularism, the death of God, and existential"}, {"timestamp": [1663.2, 1665.4], "text": " crisis. And so in this cold"}, {"timestamp": [1665.4, 1670.48], "text": " uncaring impersonal universe not only do we feel isolated socially, we feel"}, {"timestamp": [1670.48, 1676.4], "text": " isolated on a galactic scale. We feel isolated on a cosmic scale. And so this"}, {"timestamp": [1676.4, 1680.72], "text": " paradox of being you know we've only got the earth, we've only got each other, but"}, {"timestamp": [1680.72, 1685.04], "text": " we're not even talking to our neighbors anymore and so then we can feel completely"}, {"timestamp": [1685.04, 1693.28], "text": " alone at all levels starting from childhood up through teenage years adulthood and then even"}, {"timestamp": [1693.28, 1698.64], "text": " when we look further out into the universe we feel completely alone and so this ultimately leads to"}, {"timestamp": [1698.64, 1706.64], "text": " self-abandonment which is the overwhelming sense of despair, futility, and fatalism that comes from not ever finding relief"}, {"timestamp": [1706.64, 1711.76], "text": " from these abandonments, from this nihilistic crisis that the Western world, and really the"}, {"timestamp": [1711.76, 1719.28], "text": " entire world, has found itself in. It can lead to self-destructive behaviors such as addiction"}, {"timestamp": [1720.8, 1725.0], "text": " in all of its forms and self-harm of various forms as well."}, {"timestamp": [1725.58, 1728.28], "text": " But then also it just leads to a loss of self-care,"}, {"timestamp": [1728.28, 1730.3], "text": " self-love and self-compassion,"}, {"timestamp": [1730.3, 1735.3], "text": " which can then reinforce the existential crisis"}, {"timestamp": [1735.96, 1737.48], "text": " because it's like, well, I don't care about myself"}, {"timestamp": [1737.48, 1739.36], "text": " because nobody else cares about me."}, {"timestamp": [1739.36, 1742.44], "text": " And we see this in when,"}, {"timestamp": [1742.44, 1747.0], "text": " I actually got the inspiration for self-abandonment by listening to people talk"}, {"timestamp": [1747.0, 1754.48], "text": " about hustle culture, where people will just literally brag about not getting enough sleep"}, {"timestamp": [1754.48, 1756.24], "text": " because they have to work so hard."}, {"timestamp": [1756.24, 1762.44], "text": " And I'm like, why would you brag about hurting yourself in this way?"}, {"timestamp": [1762.44, 1764.54], "text": " As the kids say these days, it's copium, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1764.54, 1765.96], "text": " It's an attempt to cope."}, {"timestamp": [1765.96, 1768.48], "text": " But all of that copium is in response"}, {"timestamp": [1768.48, 1771.34], "text": " to this system of abandonment,"}, {"timestamp": [1771.34, 1776.18], "text": " which is again, rooted in these macroscopic changes"}, {"timestamp": [1776.18, 1778.8], "text": " that are literally centuries in the making,"}, {"timestamp": [1778.8, 1781.5], "text": " which is why it took so long for me to unpack all of this"}, {"timestamp": [1781.5, 1784.74], "text": " to realize, holy crap, this was literally"}, {"timestamp": [1784.74, 1786.24], "text": " like 2000 years in the making. for me to unpack all of this to realize, holy crap, this was literally like 2,000 years"}, {"timestamp": [1786.24, 1787.88], "text": " in the making."}, {"timestamp": [1787.88, 1792.9], "text": " And certainly over the last 600 years of technological advancement has really accelerated it."}, {"timestamp": [1792.9, 1797.48], "text": " And so when you look at these trends, it was kind of inevitable that there would be a clash,"}, {"timestamp": [1797.48, 1801.16], "text": " that there would be some kind of crisis, some kind of turning point."}, {"timestamp": [1801.16, 1806.76], "text": " Okay, so the limitations of nihilism and moving beyond nihilism. How"}, {"timestamp": [1806.76, 1812.76], "text": " do we chart our path forward? So some people, as I mentioned earlier, advocate"}, {"timestamp": [1812.76, 1819.88], "text": " going backwards. Now this is either not possible or not desirable because"}, {"timestamp": [1819.88, 1824.4], "text": " society intrinsically does not just move backwards. You can't unlearn the things"}, {"timestamp": [1824.4, 1826.7], "text": " that you have learned."}, {"timestamp": [1826.7, 1831.84], "text": " But also another problem, so this is like being caught between a rock and a hard place."}, {"timestamp": [1831.84, 1837.64], "text": " Moving forward is confusing and difficult and often painful."}, {"timestamp": [1837.64, 1842.38], "text": " If you don't know where you're going and why, you might just stick where you are."}, {"timestamp": [1842.38, 1843.64], "text": " This is called the devil you know."}, {"timestamp": [1843.64, 1847.4], "text": " Stay with the devil you know. Stay with the devil you know. And it's like, okay, well, right now sucks."}, {"timestamp": [1848.52, 1850.56], "text": " And I definitely don't want to go backwards,"}, {"timestamp": [1850.56, 1853.28], "text": " but I don't know or believe that I can go forward,"}, {"timestamp": [1853.28, 1854.8], "text": " so I'm just gonna stay right here."}, {"timestamp": [1854.8, 1856.88], "text": " This is also called learned helplessness."}, {"timestamp": [1856.88, 1858.96], "text": " Learned helplessness is a huge feature"}, {"timestamp": [1858.96, 1860.36], "text": " of the nihilistic crisis."}, {"timestamp": [1861.72, 1863.76], "text": " So one solution that has been proposed"}, {"timestamp": [1863.76, 1867.0], "text": " is so-called optimistic nihilism."}, {"timestamp": [1867.0, 1873.32], "text": " So optimistic nihilism says, ah yes, you know, where there is no such thing as, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [1873.32, 1879.3], "text": " there's no intrinsic meaning, God is dead, so that means I am free to create my own meaning."}, {"timestamp": [1879.3, 1882.46], "text": " But remember I talked about the problem of choice."}, {"timestamp": [1882.46, 1886.68], "text": " And so, you know, okay know okay yes you are on an individual"}, {"timestamp": [1886.68, 1891.08], "text": " level able to create your own meaning but this doesn't replace everything that"}, {"timestamp": [1891.08, 1896.84], "text": " you lost with the nihilistic crisis so it does not fully address the pain and"}, {"timestamp": [1896.84, 1908.2], "text": " so therefore optimistic nihilism falls well short of giving you a new narrative, a new roadmap, a new model of engaging with reality"}, {"timestamp": [1908.2, 1913.0], "text": " and the confusing as hell existence that we all face."}, {"timestamp": [1913.0, 1918.0], "text": " And so, because we can't go backwards and because the current solutions don't work,"}, {"timestamp": [1918.0, 1923.0], "text": " by virtue of lack of any other choice, we probably do have to go forwards."}, {"timestamp": [1923.0, 1925.52], "text": " And so, this begs the question,"}, {"timestamp": [1925.52, 1931.64], "text": " what comes after nihilism? You know, you can guess the post-nihilism. Okay, but"}, {"timestamp": [1931.64, 1937.48], "text": " what does post-nihilism mean? Okay, so let's start to unpack post-nihilism. The"}, {"timestamp": [1937.48, 1941.4], "text": " central axiom, and this was the breakthrough that I had within the"}, {"timestamp": [1941.4, 1945.84], "text": " last couple weeks, was what is the underpinning assertion?"}, {"timestamp": [1945.84, 1950.52], "text": " The underpinning assertion of nihilism is that there is no intrinsic meaning."}, {"timestamp": [1950.52, 1952.4], "text": " Meaning is meaningless."}, {"timestamp": [1952.4, 1958.26], "text": " But moving beyond that, what I realized was that meaning is not actually necessary."}, {"timestamp": [1958.26, 1961.6], "text": " And I'll tell you the story about how I came up with this."}, {"timestamp": [1961.6, 1970.0], "text": " But here's a few, here's a high-level CliffsNotes version of post-nihilism. First and foremost, it challenges the traditional emphasis on"}, {"timestamp": [1970.0, 1976.08], "text": " cosmic or societal meaning. By saying that meaning is not necessary, you say"}, {"timestamp": [1976.08, 1981.56], "text": " maybe it was a false pretense all along. Maybe that, maybe we've got that"}, {"timestamp": [1981.56, 1990.92], "text": " cultural baggage, that historical baggage of cosmic meaning and we just need to kind of set that aside. Post-Nihilism"}, {"timestamp": [1990.92, 1996.32], "text": " emphasizes your individual journey rather than some cosmic journey or"}, {"timestamp": [1996.32, 2001.88], "text": " cosmic purpose. It values unique experiences and struggles. So basically"}, {"timestamp": [2001.88, 2009.44], "text": " your experience is yours, your journey is yours. No one can take that from you. And even regardless of whatever else is"}, {"timestamp": [2009.44, 2015.96], "text": " going on in the universe, that is always yours. Your experience is always that. The"}, {"timestamp": [2015.96, 2020.36], "text": " next thing is that it celebrates the transient moments of life. And so, you"}, {"timestamp": [2020.36, 2024.56], "text": " know, one thing that's really scary when you think about it for a minute is all"}, {"timestamp": [2024.56, 2027.4], "text": " you have is the current ephemeral moment."}, {"timestamp": [2027.4, 2031.96], "text": " The version of you that was alive yesterday and thinking and breathing no longer exists."}, {"timestamp": [2031.96, 2036.92], "text": " You went to sleep, your brain reset, your memory state reset, and yes, you woke up today"}, {"timestamp": [2036.92, 2041.88], "text": " and your brain has structures to pull some of those memories back, but the moment is"}, {"timestamp": [2041.88, 2043.36], "text": " gone."}, {"timestamp": [2043.36, 2045.46], "text": " All the sensations that you had yesterday, last week, last year, all of moment is gone. All the sensations that you had yesterday, last"}, {"timestamp": [2045.46, 2051.1], "text": " week, last year, all of that's gone. And the future is uncertain. And so all you"}, {"timestamp": [2051.1, 2055.54], "text": " have is the current ephemeral moment of existence. And so when you when you think"}, {"timestamp": [2055.54, 2060.98], "text": " of it that way, our entire existence exists on the edge of a knife. It exists"}, {"timestamp": [2060.98, 2066.94], "text": " as a pinpoint in space and time. And that can be pretty unsettling."}, {"timestamp": [2066.94, 2071.46], "text": " But when you understand that and you embrace, that's all you've got."}, {"timestamp": [2071.46, 2074.78], "text": " That is a big part of post-nihilism."}, {"timestamp": [2074.78, 2079.7], "text": " Another thing is that we can find a lot of fulfillment and purpose in satisfying our"}, {"timestamp": [2079.7, 2083.66], "text": " basic human needs and drives, and I'll unpack that more later."}, {"timestamp": [2083.66, 2087.04], "text": " It encourages also engaging your intrinsic"}, {"timestamp": [2087.04, 2092.72], "text": " curiosity and your intrinsic motivations, your intrinsic drives that are that are rooted in"}, {"timestamp": [2092.72, 2098.56], "text": " your mind, your biology, and in your evolution. And one of the most important things is that while"}, {"timestamp": [2098.56, 2108.9], "text": " meaning is not necessary, this doesn't say that meaning is irrelevant. It doesn't say that meaning is undesirable. All I'm saying with post-nihilism is that meaning is not"}, {"timestamp": [2108.9, 2115.98], "text": " necessary. It's not the highest order of goals or purpose in life. You can still"}, {"timestamp": [2115.98, 2119.9], "text": " find meaning, you can still find purpose, but it's just not your number one"}, {"timestamp": [2119.9, 2127.04], "text": " priority. Okay, so the origins of post-nihilism. So I grew up in a secular"}, {"timestamp": [2127.04, 2131.76], "text": " home and when I was about four or five I was riding around with my dad and I"}, {"timestamp": [2131.76, 2137.42], "text": " asked as many precocious gifted children do, why are we here? Like what does it all"}, {"timestamp": [2137.42, 2143.64], "text": " mean? And my dad said basically there is no real reason, like we're just, we just"}, {"timestamp": [2143.64, 2147.64], "text": " are here, you know, there's the Big Bang, there's evolution, but there is no real reason like we're just we just are here you know there's the Big Bang there's evolution but there's no there's no overriding"}, {"timestamp": [2147.64, 2154.36], "text": " purpose there's no overarching narrative or meaning and so I was just like oh"}, {"timestamp": [2154.36, 2162.12], "text": " okay so I never had those grand narratives of meaning and purpose and so"}, {"timestamp": [2162.12, 2165.64], "text": " I had from a very young age this radical acceptance"}, {"timestamp": [2165.64, 2170.76], "text": " of the intrinsic meaningless of life. And so because I never grew up with that"}, {"timestamp": [2170.76, 2174.76], "text": " cosmic meaning, that need for cosmic meaning, it seemed really strange to me"}, {"timestamp": [2174.76, 2178.28], "text": " that other people didn't. That's another reason why it took me so long to figure"}, {"timestamp": [2178.28, 2183.82], "text": " out that this is actually something that other people need. And so fast forward"}, {"timestamp": [2183.82, 2188.2], "text": " more than 30 years or about 30 years, I started"}, {"timestamp": [2188.2, 2194.08], "text": " writing my novel about four years ago and part of my novel was envisioning a"}, {"timestamp": [2194.08, 2199.6], "text": " post-scarcity hyperabundant society. Basically kind of forecasting like okay"}, {"timestamp": [2199.6, 2203.0], "text": " let's assume that artificial intelligence and nuclear fusion and all"}, {"timestamp": [2203.0, 2209.24], "text": " these new technologies solve all of our material problems. If you get rid of all of our material"}, {"timestamp": [2209.24, 2216.92], "text": " problems and all of the need to work and everything, what's left? What philosophy"}, {"timestamp": [2216.92, 2220.74], "text": " would that society need to adapt in order to be healthy? Because I wanted to"}, {"timestamp": [2220.74, 2225.84], "text": " envision a utopia. Like, okay, so what underpinning philosophy does a"}, {"timestamp": [2225.84, 2230.48], "text": " utopia have? Obviously, it's not going to be nihilism because nihilism is intrinsically"}, {"timestamp": [2230.48, 2237.92], "text": " self-destructive. So if AI removes the need for human labor and effort and all need for struggle,"}, {"timestamp": [2238.56, 2247.2], "text": " what is left? And in the pursuit of answering that question through, I'm now on draft 13 of my novel,"}, {"timestamp": [2248.48, 2252.4], "text": " how do you move beyond that nihilistic crisis that we are presently mired in?"}, {"timestamp": [2252.4, 2257.12], "text": " How do we get, not just from a technical perspective, from a cultural, sociological,"}, {"timestamp": [2257.12, 2261.92], "text": " and philosophical perspective, how do we get from here to there? How do we get from our current"}, {"timestamp": [2261.92, 2266.64], "text": " trend of dystopia to a state of utopia? That"}, {"timestamp": [2266.64, 2271.34], "text": " is the origin of post-Nihilism."}, {"timestamp": [2271.34, 2278.32], "text": " So some influences on post-Nihilism. As I mentioned earlier in the video, I have studied"}, {"timestamp": [2278.32, 2285.92], "text": " cultures all over the globe, in particular, Eastern philosophy and culture."}, {"timestamp": [2285.92, 2290.84], "text": " And I found a lot of answers in Japanese culture and Japanese history."}, {"timestamp": [2290.84, 2294.58], "text": " So one of the key influences is wabi-sabi."}, {"timestamp": [2294.58, 2302.4], "text": " So wabi-sabi is a Japanese concept which literally you cannot translate to English."}, {"timestamp": [2302.4, 2306.28], "text": " It just, it is untranslatable. But what it does is"}, {"timestamp": [2306.28, 2311.32], "text": " it focuses on imperfection, transience, and incompleteness. Basically it"}, {"timestamp": [2311.32, 2316.96], "text": " acknowledges the passage of time and the natural state of decay that is just an"}, {"timestamp": [2316.96, 2322.16], "text": " intrinsic part of life. And it's and this is why you see in many Japanese"}, {"timestamp": [2322.16, 2326.44], "text": " aesthetics like things are decaying, there's moss covering"}, {"timestamp": [2326.44, 2328.74], "text": " everything, stuff is old."}, {"timestamp": [2328.74, 2334.56], "text": " And at the same time, the Japanese tend to rebuild stuff because of this deeply embedded"}, {"timestamp": [2334.56, 2340.52], "text": " acceptance of the passage of time and of decay and destruction of transience and imperfection."}, {"timestamp": [2340.52, 2344.16], "text": " And it's like, okay, well, you know, the house has fallen down, so let's just build a new"}, {"timestamp": [2344.16, 2350.02], "text": " one. This radical acceptance of mortality of age of decay"}, {"timestamp": [2350.02, 2355.88], "text": " is very deeply embedded in Japanese culture. Another concept is Ichigo-ichi"}, {"timestamp": [2355.88, 2362.96], "text": " which translates roughly to one time one meaning. So this came from, this is"}, {"timestamp": [2362.96, 2367.04], "text": " exemplified by the the tea ceremonies from Japan."}, {"timestamp": [2367.04, 2371.44], "text": " But again, it has to do with not just awareness,"}, {"timestamp": [2371.44, 2374.28], "text": " but embracing and appreciating"}, {"timestamp": [2374.28, 2377.2], "text": " that ephemeral fleeting nature of reality,"}, {"timestamp": [2377.2, 2379.44], "text": " that every moment is unique."}, {"timestamp": [2379.44, 2382.6], "text": " Rather than trying to think of permanence"}, {"timestamp": [2382.6, 2384.54], "text": " and grand narratives, it just says,"}, {"timestamp": [2384.54, 2385.16], "text": " this moment"}, {"timestamp": [2385.16, 2390.48], "text": " right now is good or bad or whatever, but that radical acceptance of that"}, {"timestamp": [2390.48, 2394.32], "text": " transient ephemeral nature and just saying like yes this is beautiful right"}, {"timestamp": [2394.32, 2401.8], "text": " here. Shinto is a spiritual philosophy from"}, {"timestamp": [2401.8, 2407.2], "text": " ancient Japan and it has the concept of Kami which Kami is"}, {"timestamp": [2407.2, 2414.44], "text": " often translated to God because that's like the closest ish word but Kami means"}, {"timestamp": [2414.44, 2419.84], "text": " many things but it does not mean God it may it might mean divine not in a deity"}, {"timestamp": [2419.84, 2425.04], "text": " sense but it might mean divine in terms of the sublime and the awe-inspiring"}, {"timestamp": [2425.78, 2432.32], "text": " within the context of the mundane world. In other words, kami does not have to do with celestial origins."}, {"timestamp": [2432.8, 2437.24], "text": " It has more to do with the majesty of nature, of life, of"}, {"timestamp": [2438.0, 2443.88], "text": " experience. And so in that respect, we are surrounded by kami at all times, but in particular"}, {"timestamp": [2444.72, 2445.22], "text": " during those that respect we are surrounded by kami at all times but in particular during"}, {"timestamp": [2445.22, 2451.48], "text": " those those those peak experiences in life. And then of course I also studied"}, {"timestamp": [2451.48, 2456.04], "text": " Zen Buddhism for many years which one of the most important lessons from Zen"}, {"timestamp": [2456.04, 2459.72], "text": " Buddhism is radical acceptance, challenging assumptions, and then letting"}, {"timestamp": [2459.72, 2466.06], "text": " go. Those are three of the biggest pillars of Zen Buddhism, which again dovetails"}, {"timestamp": [2466.06, 2470.8], "text": " actually very nicely with postmodernism, particularly challenging"}, {"timestamp": [2470.8, 2477.24], "text": " assumptions and letting go of baggage. So I took Western philosophy and Eastern"}, {"timestamp": [2477.24, 2482.2], "text": " philosophy and then shamanic experiences from the global South and all of that"}, {"timestamp": [2482.2, 2485.24], "text": " came together to make post-nihilism."}, {"timestamp": [2489.88, 2490.52], "text": " Okay, so the journey from nihilistic crisis to post-nihilism is"}, {"timestamp": [2496.32, 2496.52], "text": " primarily about letting go of the demand for meaning, and what I mean by meaning is capital M meaning."}, {"timestamp": [2498.98, 2499.84], "text": " So challenge the necessity of meaning."}, {"timestamp": [2505.7, 2510.22], "text": " Question whether or not the need for meaning has been a false pretense all along. It's been a false narrative all along. One thing to keep in mind is that the"}, {"timestamp": [2510.22, 2515.38], "text": " universe hasn't changed. In all of human existence, from since before religion"}, {"timestamp": [2515.38, 2520.22], "text": " existed until long after we're gone, the universe, like yes it might be changing"}, {"timestamp": [2520.22, 2523.78], "text": " and evolving, but the fundamental precepts of the universe haven't changed."}, {"timestamp": [2523.78, 2529.6], "text": " Only our perception has changed. Only our beliefs have changed. And so if that's"}, {"timestamp": [2529.6, 2538.16], "text": " true, maybe, you know, the the 2,000 or so years of the idea of cosmically imbued"}, {"timestamp": [2538.16, 2547.62], "text": " purpose, maybe that was a lie all along. And so then another way to unpack that is realize that the the"}, {"timestamp": [2547.62, 2552.9], "text": " narrative of meaning is just words. It's been put down in books, it's been"}, {"timestamp": [2552.9, 2556.38], "text": " put down in religion, it's been put down in stories, but it's still just a"}, {"timestamp": [2556.38, 2561.82], "text": " narrative. It's just a construct. It's a social construct and that without it if"}, {"timestamp": [2561.82, 2566.12], "text": " you unpack and kind of go to a primordial state, it was never"}, {"timestamp": [2566.12, 2573.24], "text": " there in the first place. And so then moving beyond is and letting go, it's not"}, {"timestamp": [2573.24, 2577.64], "text": " just about discarding the need for meaning, but you have to advance towards"}, {"timestamp": [2577.64, 2582.8], "text": " something else, right? As I mentioned earlier, the problems with postmodernism"}, {"timestamp": [2582.8, 2587.64], "text": " is that it shattered every narrative and then didn't replace it with anything else. And so then you're"}, {"timestamp": [2587.64, 2593.92], "text": " just kind of lost. And so in that respect, moving beyond nihilism,"}, {"timestamp": [2593.92, 2597.52], "text": " towards post-nihilism, is not just about rejection. It's not just about"}, {"timestamp": [2597.52, 2602.28], "text": " destroying the old way. It is also about growth and reformation and moving"}, {"timestamp": [2602.28, 2605.84], "text": " towards something else. And then finally,"}, {"timestamp": [2605.84, 2610.5], "text": " moving towards that state of post-nihilism, getting rid of the demand"}, {"timestamp": [2610.5, 2615.16], "text": " for meaning, is about embracing your individual experience. It's your journey,"}, {"timestamp": [2615.16, 2619.64], "text": " it's your struggles, and your challenges. And by wrapping yourself in that, and by"}, {"timestamp": [2619.64, 2624.08], "text": " saying, you know, yes this is my life, and there's a million things that I would"}, {"timestamp": [2624.08, 2629.04], "text": " change about it, but this is mine, and I can't get off this ride, right? And that's not like throwing your hands"}, {"timestamp": [2629.04, 2633.48], "text": " up and giving up. It's just saying, wow, this struggle that I'm going through, it sucks,"}, {"timestamp": [2633.48, 2639.44], "text": " but this struggle is part of the purpose or part of how I can find my own purpose or whatever."}, {"timestamp": [2639.44, 2649.2], "text": " And then appreciating that transience and that uniqueness of those individual moments, of those ephemeral moments in reality. And then replace the demand for"}, {"timestamp": [2649.2, 2654.96], "text": " universal meaning with a focus on those personal moment-to-moment bits of"}, {"timestamp": [2654.96, 2661.2], "text": " significance, in search of the sublime, in search of experiencing, you know, the"}, {"timestamp": [2661.2, 2666.44], "text": " awe-inspiring, the moments of Kami, as the Japanese might say."}, {"timestamp": [2666.44, 2672.28], "text": " And so then when you change your orientation to be really deeply anchored in the moment,"}, {"timestamp": [2672.28, 2678.12], "text": " in the ephemeral moment, and focusing on your own journey, rather than cosmic narratives,"}, {"timestamp": [2678.12, 2682.88], "text": " those false constructs, then life really changes for you."}, {"timestamp": [2682.88, 2686.8], "text": " And what I will tell you is that when I had this breakthrough personally,"}, {"timestamp": [2687.04, 2691.4], "text": " like I was, it was just on repeat in my,"}, {"timestamp": [2691.4, 2694.68], "text": " in my head, like as I was trying to go to sleep, like, it's all about my journey,"}, {"timestamp": [2694.68, 2698.2], "text": " my journey. It's all about like, meaning is not necessary."}, {"timestamp": [2698.2, 2703.12], "text": " It was just on repeat as my mind was like recalibrating itself to fully,"}, {"timestamp": [2704.12, 2708.84], "text": " to fully vest into post-nihilism. Okay, so I know"}, {"timestamp": [2708.84, 2712.48], "text": " this is a wall of text. By the way, you can download this whole thing. I'll show"}, {"timestamp": [2712.48, 2716.4], "text": " you the link at the end of the video. Here are some downstream principles, some"}, {"timestamp": [2716.4, 2721.0], "text": " derivative principles from post-nihilism, and this is not an exhaustive list. This"}, {"timestamp": [2721.0, 2727.68], "text": " is still a work in progress. Obviously, it can take decades to fully articulate a philosophical movement and by that time it's probably"}, {"timestamp": [2727.68, 2732.6], "text": " going to be irrelevant anyways. And by the way, I do not anticipate that"}, {"timestamp": [2732.6, 2736.92], "text": " post-nihilism is going to last forever. This is just the next phase of our"}, {"timestamp": [2736.92, 2742.56], "text": " philosophical growth. So first is embracing the ephemeral. I've talked"}, {"timestamp": [2742.56, 2748.32], "text": " about that quite a bit, but it's,'s you know life is seen as a series of unique unrepeatable moments"}, {"timestamp": [2748.32, 2751.36], "text": " each valuable in its own right. There you have it."}, {"timestamp": [2751.36, 2756.56], "text": " Intrinsic motivation. So basically intrinsic motivation is looking at"}, {"timestamp": [2757.76, 2762.72], "text": " like the your inner reasons for doing anything. Whether it's pleasure, whether it's satisfaction,"}, {"timestamp": [2763.52, 2766.62], "text": " your just innate biological drives, or whatever,"}, {"timestamp": [2766.62, 2770.22], "text": " you know, your own desire for meaning or purpose,"}, {"timestamp": [2770.22, 2774.32], "text": " rather than some extrinsic motivation, right?"}, {"timestamp": [2774.32, 2775.44], "text": " Because God said so,"}, {"timestamp": [2775.44, 2777.92], "text": " that's what I mean by extrinsic versus intrinsic."}, {"timestamp": [2777.92, 2781.22], "text": " Your individual journey, which I already talked about"}, {"timestamp": [2781.22, 2783.74], "text": " quite a bit, so I don't need to belabor that point."}, {"timestamp": [2783.74, 2789.68], "text": " Rejection of cosmic necessity, Again, remembering that that these cosmic narratives might have"}, {"timestamp": [2789.68, 2794.88], "text": " been false in the first place. Biological grounding. Whatever else is true, your"}, {"timestamp": [2794.88, 2798.64], "text": " brain is not separate from your body. Your mind is not separate from your body."}, {"timestamp": [2798.64, 2802.28], "text": " Yes, you might make the argument that like, okay, we have a soul and there's"}, {"timestamp": [2802.28, 2807.2], "text": " some evidence that, you know, your brain follows energetic patterns and responds to things that are"}, {"timestamp": [2807.2, 2811.48], "text": " not fully grounded in your body but the rest of your body is still grounded in"}, {"timestamp": [2811.48, 2816.56], "text": " physics and reality. And so when you look at at some of the frameworks that I'll"}, {"timestamp": [2816.56, 2821.96], "text": " pitch in just a second there are some universal truths about being a human"}, {"timestamp": [2821.96, 2827.56], "text": " animal that really for me offered a tremendous amount of guidance."}, {"timestamp": [2827.56, 2829.16], "text": " A holistic approach."}, {"timestamp": [2829.16, 2835.44], "text": " So again, rather than trying to separate out philosophy and mind from body and material,"}, {"timestamp": [2835.44, 2841.2], "text": " like we are a complete entity in a complex world and so rather than trying to look at"}, {"timestamp": [2841.2, 2846.16], "text": " philosophy in a vacuum, I advocate for looking at philosophy"}, {"timestamp": [2846.16, 2852.96], "text": " and life and existence holistically, which is our place in relation to all that and within"}, {"timestamp": [2852.96, 2854.32], "text": " it."}, {"timestamp": [2854.32, 2857.76], "text": " And then finally challenge to transcendental narratives, pretty much the same thing as"}, {"timestamp": [2857.76, 2860.96], "text": " rejection of the cosmic narratives."}, {"timestamp": [2860.96, 2869.0], "text": " But the idea of rejecting transcendental narratives is like the idea that there's some external force providing meaning."}, {"timestamp": [2869.0, 2877.5], "text": " That whether or not that external force is outside of the cosmos itself, a hypercosmic entity, or if it's just completely abstract."}, {"timestamp": [2877.5, 2883.0], "text": " But basically it says, let's stay rooted in our lived experience."}, {"timestamp": [2883.0, 2886.48], "text": " Okay, so here are some helpful frameworks."}, {"timestamp": [2888.84, 2891.84], "text": " The most famous one, Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs."}, {"timestamp": [2892.84, 2895.96], "text": " These frameworks are pretty universal."}, {"timestamp": [2895.96, 2897.44], "text": " They transcend cultural boundaries,"}, {"timestamp": [2897.68, 2900.68], "text": " and they reveal some universal truths about being human."}, {"timestamp": [2901.8, 2903.44], "text": " And while you might want to say,"}, {"timestamp": [2903.44, 2906.36], "text": " oh, well, philosophy and reason and logic"}, {"timestamp": [2906.36, 2910.4], "text": " exists outside of humanity, I kind of don't think so and I didn't have a slide"}, {"timestamp": [2910.4, 2915.0], "text": " about this, but as I engage with the concept of emergence, emergent"}, {"timestamp": [2915.0, 2920.16], "text": " complexity, the existence of humanity and minds and thought is not a foregone"}, {"timestamp": [2920.16, 2924.4], "text": " conclusion in this universe. And so therefore when you look at the fact that"}, {"timestamp": [2924.4, 2929.28], "text": " like, okay, life came to be and that might have been an accident it emerged it was"}, {"timestamp": [2929.28, 2935.32], "text": " not necessarily an automatic thing so the complexity of life emerged from the"}, {"timestamp": [2935.32, 2940.0], "text": " underlying rules and systems of the universe and then from life emerged"}, {"timestamp": [2940.0, 2950.44], "text": " intelligence and then that emerged consciousness and all those other things and so the idea that there is something above us is not true it's all below us"}, {"timestamp": [2950.44, 2956.76], "text": " we are already at the top of complexity as as far as I can tell and so from that"}, {"timestamp": [2956.76, 2960.4], "text": " it's like okay well instead of looking up look down so you start with the"}, {"timestamp": [2960.4, 2964.16], "text": " physiological and safety and love and belonging and blah blah blah blah blah"}, {"timestamp": [2964.16, 2971.04], "text": " and then you know self actualization realizing your full potential and then transcendence basically this is"}, {"timestamp": [2971.04, 2976.56], "text": " this is where optimistic nihilism still kind of applies which is like ah well in order for me to"}, {"timestamp": [2976.56, 2981.2], "text": " reach my own maximum potential this is the direction i can choose i don't necessarily"}, {"timestamp": [2981.2, 2986.52], "text": " agree with transcendence um or looking at it through the lens of optimistic"}, {"timestamp": [2986.52, 2988.58], "text": " nihilism."}, {"timestamp": [2988.58, 2991.68], "text": " Another thing is self-determination theory."}, {"timestamp": [2991.68, 2995.36], "text": " So self-determination theory is actually a simpler framework than Maslow's hierarchy"}, {"timestamp": [2995.36, 2996.36], "text": " of needs."}, {"timestamp": [2996.36, 2998.96], "text": " It has to do with belonging, mastery, and autonomy."}, {"timestamp": [2998.96, 3008.76], "text": " So belonging, which is love and belongingness, and also esteem, your place in society. Mastery also has to do with esteem, but mastery also has to do with"}, {"timestamp": [3008.76, 3012.6], "text": " self-actualization and transcendent, which is like basically being the best"}, {"timestamp": [3012.6, 3016.36], "text": " that you can be, right? This is an intrinsic human motivation. And then"}, {"timestamp": [3016.36, 3019.32], "text": " finally, autonomy. So autonomy is something that is not reflected in"}, {"timestamp": [3019.32, 3031.2], "text": " Maslow's hierarchy of needs, but is basically autonomy is the ability the freedom to to act according to your own desires and your own goals choice theory"}, {"timestamp": [3031.2, 3037.64], "text": " by William Glasser is a framework that has five points so survival love power"}, {"timestamp": [3037.64, 3043.0], "text": " freedom and fun you can see a lot of a lot of similarity so like power is"}, {"timestamp": [3043.0, 3045.4], "text": " similar to mastery freedom is similar to mastery, freedom is similar to autonomy."}, {"timestamp": [3045.4, 3050.2], "text": " Fun, fun is an interesting thing to add because that's not reflected here either."}, {"timestamp": [3050.2, 3055.6], "text": " Survival, that's reflected here under physiological and safety, so that's pretty similar to those two."}, {"timestamp": [3055.6, 3058.2], "text": " Then love, you know, so love and belongingness."}, {"timestamp": [3058.2, 3061.0], "text": " And then Walsh's therapeutic lifestyle changes."}, {"timestamp": [3061.0, 3065.6], "text": " So Roger Walsh created this framework, this TLC framework that"}, {"timestamp": [3065.6, 3072.08], "text": " has eight points. And so basically it's you know how to be healthy. So you know"}, {"timestamp": [3072.08, 3077.2], "text": " get enough exercise, get good nutrition, spend time in nature, have you know"}, {"timestamp": [3077.2, 3082.96], "text": " invest in your relationships, have good relationships, have recreation, so"}, {"timestamp": [3082.96, 3085.0], "text": " enjoyable hobbies that's fun, relaxation and rest, so that hobbies, that's fun."}, {"timestamp": [3085.44, 3089.3], "text": " Relaxation and rest, so that is having a recovery time."}, {"timestamp": [3089.3, 3092.32], "text": " Spirituality, so engaging with something bigger"}, {"timestamp": [3092.32, 3093.3], "text": " than yourself."}, {"timestamp": [3093.3, 3097.04], "text": " And then service, acts of service or community service,"}, {"timestamp": [3097.04, 3100.32], "text": " giving back to the human condition."}, {"timestamp": [3100.32, 3104.74], "text": " So these four frameworks are very, very helpful."}, {"timestamp": [3104.74, 3105.08], "text": " And the reason that I advocate for these frameworks, So these four frameworks are very very helpful and"}, {"timestamp": [3107.08, 3107.2], "text": " the the reason that I"}, {"timestamp": [3111.48, 3111.68], "text": " advocate for these frameworks and another reason that I say that this is different from optimistic nihilism is"}, {"timestamp": [3118.04, 3122.44], "text": " Because optimistic nihilism throws the baby out with the bathwater along with nihilism. It says there is no meaning there is no purpose There is no reason but that's not actually true because weren't you at the end of the day?"}, {"timestamp": [3122.44, 3130.56], "text": " You're still human. You still have physiological needs. You still have a brain, you still have millions of years of evolution guiding who and what you"}, {"timestamp": [3130.56, 3137.2], "text": " are today. And these frameworks for me have been incredibly useful for figuring out what to do."}, {"timestamp": [3137.2, 3141.92], "text": " And I actually forgot to include Ikigai, which is a Japanese framework for how to find meaning"}, {"timestamp": [3141.92, 3145.0], "text": " and purpose. So look up Ikigai. I"}, {"timestamp": [3145.0, 3151.08], "text": " should have a link in the comments. Okay, so moving forward. Criticisms of"}, {"timestamp": [3151.08, 3155.96], "text": " post-nihilism. One thing that you might say is like, okay, well if you just say"}, {"timestamp": [3155.96, 3160.56], "text": " meaning is not necessary, that's like, that's a cop-out, right? Maybe you're just"}, {"timestamp": [3160.56, 3165.76], "text": " giving up. But it's not giving up. It's not saying, oh well just"}, {"timestamp": [3165.76, 3168.48], "text": " throw your hands up and give up. It's just a change in"}, {"timestamp": [3168.48, 3173.68], "text": " perspective to say maybe the need for meaning is the wrong narrative. Maybe"}, {"timestamp": [3173.68, 3177.04], "text": " some of these other frameworks like Ikigai and Maslow's hierarchy of needs,"}, {"timestamp": [3177.04, 3182.64], "text": " maybe that is actually how I pursue a more meaningful, fulfilling life."}, {"timestamp": [3182.64, 3187.0], "text": " Potential for misinterpretation. The central axiom"}, {"timestamp": [3187.0, 3192.28], "text": " meaning is not necessary. You can take that a lot of different directions, but"}, {"timestamp": [3192.28, 3197.12], "text": " starting there, you know, it's like, okay, well, and again, like I said, it can take"}, {"timestamp": [3197.12, 3201.36], "text": " decades to fully articulate a philosophical movement, and by no"}, {"timestamp": [3201.36, 3204.72], "text": " stretch of the imagination do I entertain the delusion that I am going"}, {"timestamp": [3204.72, 3205.84], "text": " to control the entire thing."}, {"timestamp": [3205.84, 3208.4], "text": " I'm just introducing the concept."}, {"timestamp": [3208.4, 3215.78], "text": " So maybe like previous philosophical movements, the things that I articulate will then be"}, {"timestamp": [3215.78, 3220.64], "text": " misinterpreted or misconstrued, deliberately or otherwise, who knows."}, {"timestamp": [3220.64, 3222.6], "text": " Now here's an interesting one."}, {"timestamp": [3222.6, 3224.96], "text": " Challenges to traditional masculinity."}, {"timestamp": [3224.96, 3229.44], "text": " This is some feedback that I've gotten where it's like, well, as a man, I need a purpose."}, {"timestamp": [3229.44, 3230.68], "text": " I need a mission in life."}, {"timestamp": [3230.68, 3232.56], "text": " And I actually agree with this."}, {"timestamp": [3232.56, 3237.92], "text": " I talked to some modern masculinists and healthy masculinists, and I absolutely agree."}, {"timestamp": [3237.92, 3241.96], "text": " I don't know if this is true for women, but certainly for men, having a mission in life"}, {"timestamp": [3241.96, 3245.36], "text": " is one of the best ways to have a sense of purpose,"}, {"timestamp": [3245.36, 3249.64], "text": " a sense of meaning, and a sense of self-esteem. I know what my mission is. My"}, {"timestamp": [3249.64, 3254.56], "text": " mission is very clear. Now, that being said, I'm not putting the need for"}, {"timestamp": [3254.56, 3259.56], "text": " meaning first. I came to my mission by looking at who I am and what I am"}, {"timestamp": [3259.56, 3264.28], "text": " capable of and what I care about. It's very egocentric in that respect. And so"}, {"timestamp": [3264.28, 3268.46], "text": " what I want to say is that post-nihilism is not a threat to masculinity. It actually"}, {"timestamp": [3268.46, 3273.26], "text": " clears a lot of the path for traditional masculinity and healthy masculinity and"}, {"timestamp": [3273.26, 3278.62], "text": " I'll unpack that in the next slide. Another criticism could be that it is"}, {"timestamp": [3278.62, 3283.5], "text": " difficult to implement, especially given all the cultural baggage that we've got."}, {"timestamp": [3283.5, 3288.5], "text": " It took me literally years to unpack all the cultural baggage that I got"}, {"timestamp": [3288.5, 3294.5], "text": " knowingly and unwittingly from my family, from the society, from messages in media,"}, {"timestamp": [3294.5, 3295.5], "text": " and that sort of thing."}, {"timestamp": [3295.5, 3301.0], "text": " And so like, whether you're looking for markers of material success, conspicuous consumption,"}, {"timestamp": [3301.0, 3305.0], "text": " you know, existing narratives,"}, {"timestamp": [3305.04, 3310.04], "text": " there's a lot of inertia kind of keeping us where we're at."}, {"timestamp": [3312.34, 3314.72], "text": " So changing directions takes a lot of energy."}, {"timestamp": [3315.96, 3319.88], "text": " Another possible criticism is potential for complacency."}, {"timestamp": [3319.88, 3323.6], "text": " So what I mean by this is that if you say,"}, {"timestamp": [3323.6, 3325.44], "text": " well, meaning isn't necessary, then it's like,"}, {"timestamp": [3325.44, 3326.8], "text": " okay, well, maybe nothing is necessary."}, {"timestamp": [3326.8, 3328.32], "text": " And that's actually fair."}, {"timestamp": [3328.32, 3333.0], "text": " That's a fair criticism because for some people, if you say, well, there is no grand purpose,"}, {"timestamp": [3333.0, 3337.48], "text": " there is no grand meaning, there is no cosmic narrative, maybe all I want to do is just"}, {"timestamp": [3337.48, 3338.48], "text": " play video games."}, {"timestamp": [3338.48, 3339.48], "text": " And you know what?"}, {"timestamp": [3339.48, 3340.48], "text": " That's fine."}, {"timestamp": [3340.48, 3344.28], "text": " If someone wants to do that, that's their life, that's their choice, that's their journey."}, {"timestamp": [3344.28, 3348.56], "text": " And so yes, some people might take it to a place and just be lazy, but you know"}, {"timestamp": [3348.56, 3354.44], "text": " what? I don't care. Let him do it. You know, as George Carlin once said,"}, {"timestamp": [3354.44, 3359.04], "text": " he's like, show me someone sitting around, you know, hitting a bong and"}, {"timestamp": [3359.04, 3362.64], "text": " touching himself, and I'll show you someone who's not causing any trouble."}, {"timestamp": [3362.64, 3370.64], "text": " George Carlin was actually very secretly, I think, a post-nihilist or absurdist. He was on the edge of"}, {"timestamp": [3370.64, 3375.16], "text": " post-nihilism but he was still very much mired in absurdism. But he had a point."}, {"timestamp": [3375.16, 3379.52], "text": " Show me someone who's doing nothing with his life except smoke and pot"}, {"timestamp": [3379.52, 3385.44], "text": " and playing video games and I'll show you someone who's not causing any trouble."}, {"timestamp": [3385.44, 3391.16], "text": " And then finally, reliance on intrinsic motivation. I do emphasize intrinsic"}, {"timestamp": [3391.16, 3393.86], "text": " motivation and of course there will always be some extrinsic"}, {"timestamp": [3393.86, 3400.08], "text": " motivations as well, right? Climate change, economics, the need to work in order to"}, {"timestamp": [3400.08, 3409.32], "text": " get money, in order to feed yourself or whatever. But with all that aside, we all have plenty of intrinsic motivation."}, {"timestamp": [3409.32, 3410.5], "text": " Hunger, right?"}, {"timestamp": [3410.5, 3412.34], "text": " Hunger will drive you to do a lot of stuff."}, {"timestamp": [3412.34, 3414.36], "text": " Loneliness will drive you to do a lot of stuff."}, {"timestamp": [3414.36, 3419.84], "text": " Those frameworks that I showed, those are very comprehensive frameworks about your intrinsic"}, {"timestamp": [3419.84, 3423.6], "text": " needs and desires and biological imperatives."}, {"timestamp": [3423.6, 3429.24], "text": " And so because you have those needs, some of the struggles and your journey is inevitable."}, {"timestamp": [3429.24, 3432.18], "text": " You're going to have to feed yourself one way or another unless you just sit there and"}, {"timestamp": [3432.18, 3433.18], "text": " starve to death."}, {"timestamp": [3433.18, 3434.18], "text": " Right?"}, {"timestamp": [3434.18, 3440.76], "text": " And so by looking at the ground truth of what remains true at all times for all humans,"}, {"timestamp": [3440.76, 3445.0], "text": " then you can still say like, okay, well, yes, maybe we get rid of those cosmic narratives,"}, {"timestamp": [3445.0, 3446.68], "text": " those extrinsic motivations."}, {"timestamp": [3446.68, 3450.44], "text": " There's plenty of intrinsic motivation for everyone to go around."}, {"timestamp": [3450.44, 3451.6], "text": " Okay."}, {"timestamp": [3451.6, 3460.0], "text": " And I wanted to share this idea to reinforce the idea that post-nihilism does not intrinsically"}, {"timestamp": [3460.0, 3462.84], "text": " run contrary to traditional masculinity."}, {"timestamp": [3462.84, 3469.4], "text": " And so I picked one of the most over-the-top, hyper-masculine role models of all time,"}, {"timestamp": [3469.4, 3471.0], "text": " Teddy Roosevelt."}, {"timestamp": [3471.0, 3476.2], "text": " So Teddy Roosevelt, for some background, he suffered severe asthma as a child."}, {"timestamp": [3476.2, 3481.16], "text": " He was incredibly frail, timid, and anxious."}, {"timestamp": [3481.16, 3486.56], "text": " But through hard work, exercise, and challenging himself, he became what he"}, {"timestamp": [3486.56, 3492.12], "text": " called a bull moose. So he's a real tough guy. And he invented this philosophy"}, {"timestamp": [3492.12, 3496.56], "text": " called the strenuous life, which you know promoted hard work, perseverance, and"}, {"timestamp": [3496.56, 3502.64], "text": " physical toughness. And he was also incredibly energetic. He advocated for"}, {"timestamp": [3502.64, 3505.92], "text": " confronting life's challenges head-on rather than"}, {"timestamp": [3505.92, 3508.88], "text": " seeking comfort and ease and what I realized as I've learned about Teddy"}, {"timestamp": [3508.88, 3514.0], "text": " Roosevelt is that because he struggled so much he just became so comfortable"}, {"timestamp": [3514.0, 3520.52], "text": " with the challenge, with his own journey of overcoming anxiety and his timidity"}, {"timestamp": [3520.52, 3527.52], "text": " and his frailty. And so as he so as a default set of behaviors and beliefs,"}, {"timestamp": [3527.52, 3532.64], "text": " it's like, well, he could wallow in anxiety and frailty,"}, {"timestamp": [3532.64, 3534.76], "text": " or he could fight it."}, {"timestamp": [3534.76, 3539.4], "text": " And so then through that transformative experience,"}, {"timestamp": [3539.4, 3541.28], "text": " he basically, with the strenuous life,"}, {"timestamp": [3541.28, 3543.08], "text": " he was describing his own life."}, {"timestamp": [3543.08, 3550.76], "text": " His own life was strenuous life, he was describing his own life. His own life was strenuous and he developed that sense of tenacity by confronting his own"}, {"timestamp": [3550.76, 3555.72], "text": " struggles and confronting his own problems and overcoming them."}, {"timestamp": [3555.72, 3563.84], "text": " And so while, you know, post-nihilism does talk about your individual journey, your"}, {"timestamp": [3563.84, 3565.12], "text": " individual experience,"}, {"timestamp": [3565.12, 3571.36], "text": " and finding value in that, in that which is uniquely yours. That is why I picked this to say"}, {"timestamp": [3571.36, 3577.6], "text": " that if the strenuous life resonates with you, which a friend of mine does, he's a member of TSL,"}, {"timestamp": [3578.16, 3582.24], "text": " if it resonates with you, that is fine. Like, that is one model. I'm not saying that the"}, {"timestamp": [3582.24, 3585.72], "text": " strenuous life is the only model of post-nihilism. I'm just saying it is a"}, {"timestamp": [3586.84, 3588.32], "text": " pro-masculinity"}, {"timestamp": [3588.32, 3591.4], "text": " model of life that dovetails very nicely with"}, {"timestamp": [3592.24, 3593.8], "text": " post-nihilism and"}, {"timestamp": [3593.8, 3600.28], "text": " So again, it has that emphasis on your individual journey and your individual challenges. And so with all that being said"}, {"timestamp": [3601.48, 3604.36], "text": " Meaning is not necessary. I hope you got a lot out of this"}, {"timestamp": [3604.36, 3606.5], "text": " I hope that this helped prime the pump"}, {"timestamp": [3606.5, 3610.94], "text": " and will get you thinking about how humanity is changing"}, {"timestamp": [3610.94, 3615.7], "text": " and will continue to change in light of all the cultural"}, {"timestamp": [3615.7, 3617.78], "text": " and philosophical and technological changes"}, {"timestamp": [3617.78, 3618.9], "text": " that we're going through."}, {"timestamp": [3618.9, 3620.34], "text": " Thanks for watching, cheers."}, {"timestamp": [3615.3, 3615.8], "text": " years."}]}