{"text": " Morning, everybody. David Shapiro here with another video. Today's video is a topic called Reclaiming Your Life, Redefining Productivity. So I often figure out what direction to get from my audience by just doing little polls and I kind of see what resonates. And this idea, I just like had an off-the-cuff idea of like, hey, reprioritizing life and overcoming workaholism. That's what I've been working on for the last few months. And so I was just like, yeah, let's throw it out. And then it was like 65%. So I was like, okay, this clearly resonated. So let's go ahead and dive right in. Little background on me, I am high IQ, although IQ is kind of a BS thing, so but anyways I was lazy as heck throughout school because grades were easy and then due to a series of events my mom died when I was a teenager and a few other things, had a difficult childhood, so I gave up on life. I did absolutely nothing after high school for about two or three years. And when I say nothing I mean like I stayed up all night playing video games. Then I got my girlfriend pregnant at the time and that really woke me up out of my stupor and I got my act together. She got an abortion, that was her choice, which I supported and we separated, but that was enough to wake me up and so I kept, you know, I was like, okay well I guess I'm gonna re-engage with life now. So I got into IT and discovered that real work is actually rewarding, unlike school. The harder you work, the harder you work, the smarter you are, the more you can advance in the workplace. I decided to get good as kids these days say. I built a six-figure career, but then I burned out repeatedly. Some of that was due to work, some of that was due to events in my life, namely toxic relationships. And finally, I think it was what, two or three weeks ago, I finally retired from my corporate job. Now I am a YouTuber and entrepreneur. So that is some framing about me, how I got here, and why I am talking about this. Part one, workaholism. Let's do a deep dive, a brief history on our toxic relationship with work. So a lot of this information comes from a book called Do Nothing by Celeste Headley, I've got it on my bookshelf over there. It is a good book and then also Lazy Does Not Exist by Devin Price. Both of these books do a really good job of unpacking everything about why we have a toxic relationship with work, but I found them a little bit disappointing because they did not offer comprehensive solutions. I will offer what I hope will come across as a much more comprehensive set of solutions in the second part of this video. So but the short the super short version is that industrialization wrecked everything. Not saying that life was peachy keen before that for everybody but you will see what I mean by like industrialization changed way too much. Then neoliberalism doubled down on it again I will unpack that a little bit add in a backdrop of Calvinism and Protestantism and we have a very, very disordered view of work, property, and righteousness and purpose. Okay, so let's dial it all the way back to Paleolithic humans. We were hunter-gatherers and this is before we were Homo sapiens. This is our predecessors. Neanderthal, Australopithecus, and all those other ones that were proto humans or pre humans. We were hunter-gatherers and it all came down to energy density of available foods. And what I mean by that is how many calories can you get from certain activities. A red deer which is not particularly big has about a hundred and fifty thousand calories. So you kill one deer and you can feed yourself and your tribe, which the average human tribe was about 19 members throughout most of history. So you do some math, that's what? 2000 calories a day times 20, so that's what, 40,000 calories? No, 400,000 calories? So one deer is enough to feed everyone for at least half a day or whatever, if I did my math right. Anyways, then you spend the rest of time gathering, fishing, mending clothes, and resting. So because of the energy density of hunting, this is why predators sleep so much. Cats sleep 20 hours a day and the reason is because they have very short periods of high intensity and then the rest of the time is just conserving energy. Pre-agrarian societies with access to things like sheep and then eventually agrarian societies with access to high efficiency grains, most of what you'd spend your time doing is waiting for nature to run its course. The sheep would go graze, the shepherd just kind of watches the flock, or you're waiting for the grain to grow. Otherwise, you are saving energy. Another thing is fishing. Fishing is very efficient. I couldn't find specific numbers, but it seems like at least in some areas, fishing actually has the highest yield of calories per hour spent. And so basically, our natural state, the environment that we evolved in for the past several million years is that of very intense short bursts of activity, like you go on a big hunt or you go out fishing, and then the rest of the time is inactivity, rest, and waiting. That is our natural state. So please keep that in mind for the rest of the video is that our natural state is you know go on the big hunt and then you wait, you sleep, because our brains make us apex predators. We are such good predators that even wolves said you know what you've got something going on we're gonna domesticate ourselves and come along with you on the hunt. Wolves are also apex predators, right? And then we come along and they're like, actually you got this figured out. So when I talk about why predators sleep so much, we must think of ourselves as apex predators. We're also omnivores, which means we can we learn to tame the land and we'll get into that in just a moment. So the rise of agriculture. The Tigris and Euphrates are often called the cradle of civilization but personally I prefer to look at the Nile River as a better example. One, because life along the Nile is still pretty much as it has been for literally thousands of years. The pace of life is very, very slow. The Nile regularly floods as rains and snow melt from thousands of miles upstream is very reliable. And when the Nile floods all the nutrients are put in the fields which then makes them fertile and productive. And so this is an example of a natural state of being, even for agrarian and agricultural societies where still most of what you're doing is waiting for nature to run its course. In fact, and I'm not saying all farming along the Nile River and Nile Delta is still done exactly the same way it was for thousands of years, but you can see people using very old school tools and stuff. And you see here where there's a camel and a donkey still being used, right? That is how efficient agriculture can be. And so I also wanted to use this to underscore the power of reliable calories. Egypt for many thousands of years was far and away the most powerful and organized civilization. They had something like 30 dynasties, not 30 kings or queens or pharaohs in a row, 30 dynasties in a row. They built the first mega projects on the entire planet that we know of and then I added a nice little hashtag Younger Dryas. I have no idea whether or not there are older civilizations that predate them but there's some evidence that people were in places and doing things earlier than perhaps we think. So anyways, sheep, goats, camels, cows, oxen, elephants even. The domestication of animals to help out with the stuff also proved to be a great strategy. There was a documentary that I watched years ago that concluded that the two primary ingredients for civilization to form was access to a cereal crop, specifically a productive cereal crop, and some kind of domesticable farm animal, whether it was, you know, the ones that I listed. Anytime that a people had access to those two things, they would eventually form a civilization. And that's why, for instance, in some places such as the Amazon rainforest and other places, there are cultures that have been there for thousands of years and these are highly productive places, but those two ingredients are missing so that they couldn't organize into a larger society. So even though there's plenty of food on you know in the Amazon River and Amazon rainforest, they didn't have access to beasts of burden or cereal crops. Okay so fast-forwarding a little little ways from you know the the Neolithic and Bronze Age and early Iron Age, we fast forward up to the Late Iron Age, the Age of Steel, and then Medieval times, this is where land law becomes really important. And so Rome, the Roman Empire and the Roman Republic really started this idea of land as a commodity, land as something that we're going to create a lot of law around, contracts, courts. The first land barons were Roman, at least at a certain scale, the first huge ones. And these are people that owned hundreds of thousands of acres of farmland. And in fact, this was such a problematic move that it probably contributed somewhat to the downfall of Rome because a few people owned all the good land and then everyone else, you know, who was supposed to be paid in land were given the The worst parcels of land which reduced loyalty increased corruption so on and so forth and of course Corruption was a major contributing factor to the downfall of Rome. So after the Empire crumbled you end up with smaller fiefdoms because regardless of what's going on politically fertile land is still super super valuable. And then if you ever want to figure that out just look at the history of rivers whether it's the Nile, the Tigris and Euphrates, the Loire. I've actually been here. I went actually been here. I went to France more than 10 years ago now, and I've been here. You go up into these castles, these little fiefs, and all you see is green fields to the horizon. The people that could own, control, and manage fertile land, typically around rivers, that was the beating heart of all economic activity for many hundreds of years, actually thousands of years. And remember, it comes down to the access to reliable calories. And eutrophic rivers, so eutrophic rivers are the ones that have a lot of organic sediment or a lot of organic compounds. Those are the fertile rivers, so when they flood their banks, they deposit a lot of fertilization on the land, the water can be used for irrigation, so on and so forth. So with the exception of things like battles and war, basically, sorry, battles, harvesting time and planting time, they all generally have a very slow pace of life. So if you ever visit rural France, Italy or Greece, I've been to France, my fiance has been to Greece, they have an exceptionally slow pace of life. And that is because they are still basically agrarian in terms of lifestyle. So fast forward to the 1400s and 1500s, the Renaissance happens and we start to have a very different relationship with work. Obviously at this time most people are still farmers in the cities, we start to have the origin of what you could call knowledge work, because we have merchants, we have bankers, we have artisans, we have guilds of all kinds, we have engineers, scribes. Gutenberg's printing press comes out, which changes our relationship with learning and reading, because basically, the more books there are, the more opportunities people have to read, and also the more that learning becomes central to economic productivity and advancement. And I will always drill this home, books are our superpower as a species. And also I've apologized, I forgot to highlight some of the key words here. We saw the rise of universities during the Renaissance. Technically some of the oldest universities universities during the Renaissance. Technically, some of the oldest universities predate the Renaissance. Oxford was founded in like 1100. But the term university comes from the idea of the universal man, which is someone who is, has learned everything that there is to learn, which at the time, that was possible. You read a few books, you'd go to a few classes, you could conceivably know everything that there was to learn, at least from an academic perspective. You wouldn't master all trades or whatever, but education was seen as above trades. And so education and learnedness were suddenly super popular and have been ever since so we have 500 years of this of this fixation on Education and learnedness and hold on. I need to pause for just a second. Okay, I'm back. Sorry about that I'm still a little congested. So I needed to make myself some tea. Also. I wanted to take this moment to Plug my patreon so you probably noticed that this video doesn't have any ads I'd like to keep it that way and I'm pretty close to being able to support myself indefinitely on patreon so if you like my content, please hop over to patreon link in the description and sign up and Yeah, if you if I get to where I need to be all of my videos will be ad free forever. Okay so we were on Renaissance so now let's fast forward to 1769 so this is the late Renaissance or early modern period I think that's early modernist technically the 18th century. James Watt, the Scottish dude, invents the steam engine in the middle of the 1700s. So I kind of see this as the turning point for industrialization. So suddenly, steam, aka wood and coal and oil and fire, became a way of harnessing a lot of energy very quickly. Up until this point, all labor had to be done by humans or beasts of burden. And so, as efficient as we are, we're not the best way of employing energy quickly. Our muscles can only burn energy so fast, animals need rest, humans need rest, etc. So with the invention of steam engines, we suddenly had this new source of energy that was 10x, 100x, 1000x higher output than human and animal labor. So fast forward within 100 years, so mid 1700s, from 1800 to 1850 the population of London doubled due to factories and urbanization. So now labor was no longer about letting the fields grow and letting nature run its course, it was about tending to the machines and operating the machines. This was a huge, huge change. So on the one hand, the good part is suddenly we had way more output. Goods could be produced at higher volume, higher rate, more regularly. Machines are tireless, but humans are not. So while this was good for the economy, while this was good for our output of goods, it was not good for the human condition. Now, I keep talking about letting nature run its course because this is a central theme to how we used to live and how we need to live, and it is not how we are living now. So what I mean by this is that with the rise of factories and urbanization, the economic output of a factory was directly controlled by the number of hours worked. So basically, a laborer can produce X number of widgets and gizmos per hour, so therefore the more hours they work, the more money the factory owner makes. So more hours, more goods, more money. So now time is money. Time is no longer something that you just let it pass. You spend time doing your own thing. You let nature run its course. Now time is directly tied to economic output. This was, this shattered our way of living. This shattered our orientation to ourselves. It shattered our orientation to the natural world and with time itself. Our concept of time changed because of industrialization. This fact cannot be overstated. Now, I already mentioned this briefly, but during this entire time, we have this backdrop of Calvinism and Protestantism, which I asked, so I actually got this definition from a chat GPT. I just asked it, like, please write a quick summary. Or no, sorry, this came from Encyclopedia Britannica. I apologize. Protestant ethic and sociological theory, the value attached to hard work, thrift, and efficiency in one's Wardley calling, your occupation, which especially in the Calvinist view were deemed signs of an individual's election or eternal salvation. In other words, economic productivity is now sacrosanct. Your ability to work is considered holy and righteous. So that ties your value as a soul, as a being, directly to how much you produce. Does that sound familiar? This has been true for hundreds of years. So Calvinism started in the 16th century, but it was formally codified into capitalism around the turn of the century, so the late 19th and early 20th centuries, and now has been secularized and embedded into neoliberalism which we'll go over in just a moment. So the implications for this I've got here at the bottom. Guilt, shame, and fear were very deliberately and explicitly wrapped up in work ethic. That has been true for hundreds of years. Hustle culture is far older than you thought. So I want to reassert this. Time is money and money is good according to this doctrine. Money is godly. Your productivity is a sign of your favor with the divine. So now time is also your most valuable commodity and the capitalists and industrialists want to capture as much value that you produce for themselves. There's all kinds of quotations from the 18th, 19th, and 20th century. Many of them from capitalists, and a lot of them have this as kind of their basic underpinning, which is you should spend all of your time working or becoming more valuable, which means learning, practicing, gaining new trades, so on and so forth. So no longer did we have this slow pace of life where we sit around eating and drinking and relaxing and socializing. Now it is you work, your purpose is to work. So whatever happened to letting nature run its course? We threw that out the window because we have science, technology, and engineering, damn it. So clocks became evil. We have a love-hate relationship with clocks. Actually, one of my goals in life is to get rid of clocks and just operate by solar time. I'm almost there. So another thing that changed is other people started capturing more of our value. So I will say that like I said, this is a new phenomenon, but not really, because there's always been some kind of hierarchy capturing value, whether it's through taxes, tithes, landowners, slave owners, so on and so forth. So it's not necessarily new, but what changed was that almost everyone became subservient to the productivity that goes into someone else's pocket. Namely for the Industrial Revolution, the machine and factory owners or the landowners still, because now we end up with corporate farms. So I've mentioned neoliberalism a few times, so let me unpack what neoliberalism is. Neoliberalism is the prevailing economic doctrine and it is important to remember that economics is a philosophy, not a science. That being said, they dress it up with science by having charts and numbers and graphs and stuff, but most of it comes down to beliefs and assertions of principles. So what does neoliberalism do? Neoliberalism favors globalization, free markets, privatization, individual liberty, deregulation, and property rights. These all probably sound really familiar because they are, quote unquote, the American way. So in order to unpack why these are the principles, the doctrine of neoliberalism, I find it easier to unpack what are the core assumptions or the core beliefs or assertions that drive and underpin neoliberalism. So here are some of the core underpinnings of neoliberalism. So one, humans are fundamentally self-interested and that humans will always act in their own self-interest. Basically, we make rational decisions that focus on our needs. Again, this basically says humans are fundamentally greedy and we should build this into our economic policies. Another core belief is that the market is the most efficient mechanism for allocating resources. Free markets are the best way to price and surface goods and services. Competition is good. Again, another thing, free market economics, competition drives down prices, forces us to seek new efficiencies. One of the downsides of this is it also forces laborers to compete with each other. And so your salary is no longer what you're worth, your salary is what you can compete with in the labor market. The role of government should be limited. That government which governs least governs best. So the role of government should be rather than providing for the people, rather than providing the safety net and managing resources, the government should just focus on creating a safe and stable market and let the rest play out naturally. And then finally, globalization is beneficial. The movement of goods, services, workers, and I should have said also information. Good services, I guess information is a good. So goods and services and workers around the planet allows for the market to find new efficiencies. So while I did say that this is a philosophy, not a science, there is plenty of evidence to support these assumptions and doctrines. But damn if it's not cold and clinical and soulless, right? That's the big problem is like, okay, yes, this is the best way to maximize efficiency, but we lose our humanity in the process. And also what I will say is that there are very good reasons that neoliberalism became the global default in 1980 with the election of Reagan and Margaret Thatcher. One of the key drivers was anger and backlash at labor unions in Britain in the 70s. So labor unions kept doing things like shutting down power, shutting down rail, and the voters got really fed up with that. Because the labor unions are like, we want more power, we want more money. And so they would go on strike and shut the country down. And everyone's like, yeah, we're kind of done with that. And so basically, uber-powered labor unions were a big driver of neoliberalism. There were also other things such as hyperinflation and shocks to the economy, namely in the fuel crisis of the 70s. So I'm not saying that it was all down to labor unions, but that was a big, big driver of it, particularly in Britain. I haven't done too much research on backlash against labor unions in America at the time, but certainly a lot of the allegories or lessons come from Britain. Okay, so that's how we got here. That was part one of the video. Here's part two, the reclamation. This quagmire was centuries in the making, technically thousands of years in the making, but really the the industrialization and Renaissance was when everything really started to pivot around 500 years ago. So let's talk about some of the things that have happened and are happening in order to change this, to reclaim our lives. So I've got on the docket here, we've got quiet quitting and the great resignation. We've got institutional codependence. This is a term that I kind of just came up with, I guess. We've got cottage core and slow living. We've got remote and flex work, Eastern wisdom, and then finally the coming AI revolution. So let's unpack these one by one. First, quiet quitting. The eight hour workday is a holdover from industrial mindsets. So you might have heard of like OSHA and other works around the turn of the century, around 1900. So basically, you know, one of the first things that labor unions did was say, hey, let's limit the workday to something more reasonable so that people aren't working themselves to death. But that was when labor was still mostly manual labor. Knowledge work, intellectual labor, most people can only do two to four hours of knowledge work per day. Why? Because our brains get tired, and we did not evolve to be hours of knowledge work per day. Why? Because our brains get tired. And we did not evolve to be thinking all day, every day. Some of us, like those of us that are neuro-spicy, we can. It's still not good for us, but we can. But the idea that we all have to sit in an office for eight hours is actually somewhat arbitrary and not really connected with productivity. And in point of fact, there are people experimenting with much shorter work days. There's a, what's it called? Like high intensity coding or whatever, where programmers only work for two or three hours a day, and then the rest of the time, they're free to do whatever they want. Personally, I have taken this to heart, and I only do a couple hours of intellectual work per day. Some days I do more. I still can do up to 10 hours a day if I've got a lot that I want to achieve, but I can't do that every day. So that's kind of the background of quiet quitting is this is why it's like it's kind of a BS thing. Like if you're a knowledge worker, you shouldn't be in an office for eight hours. Just period, end of story. Office jobs can be difficult to quantify. So because of that, because it can be difficult to measure productivity, a lot of people can just spend time playing hooky, underproducing, hiding, or otherwise pretending to work. So as a technologist myself, when I still went into the office, I spent a lot of time pretending to work. So as a technologist myself when I still went into the office I spent a lot of time pretending to work and this was also due to open office plans which have been scientifically proven to decrease work because people are more anxious about other people looking over their shoulder and so we spend more time pretending to work than actually working. So the eight-hour work day and open offices are like the worst things to happen to intellectual labor and productivity. Productivity is also much more highly abstracted. In many companies, it's not obvious how you make money. If you work for a tech company or a services company, it's like, okay, well, how do you actually make money? So like years ago, I worked for an insurance company. How do we make money? We get insurance premiums, right? And it's like, okay, so someone's, that's like the sales guys, right? They go sign up a new company. It was Workman's Comp Underwriting is the company that I work for. And it's like, okay, so they go talk to a construction company, they sign up, and they give us a monthly or weekly or quarterly check. Right, and it's like, okay, so the money's coming in, so then like whatever every employee was doing, other than like bringing that money in, it wasn't really obvious like how you were being productive. And this is true for many departments whether it's IT, HR, legal, these are business units that don't contribute to the bottom line, they're just necessary evils to run the business and so they are cost centers rather than producers. And so because we have these highly abstracted jobs, it's like okay, well we measure time because that's the best we've got, but it's like, how else do you measure productivity? You know, if you're a developer, you might, you know, measure based on lines of code produced, number of bugs closed, whatever else, you know, but identifying KPI, key performance indicators for productivity, is really hard, and it's not reliable. And that is because we're no longer manually producing widgets, right? For some places that are still more traditional factories, like if you're making jeans or sweaters or, you know, chairs or whatever, those are easier to measure because you've got one person or a small team of people producing one unit of product that can be sold. But services much harder to quantify. So because of neoliberalism there is and competition there is a constant downward pressure. This is why budgets always shrink because the the prevailing wisdom is what you do is you tighten the budget every year which forces people to be more creative and to find new efficiencies. So the idea is, well, if everyone else is depressing their budgets and laying people off, then everyone is gonna be forced to be creative, to think harder, to work smarter, not harder, so on and so forth. And again, time is money, because now, even if you're a salaried employee, it's still expected that you're gonna contribute much of your intellectual capital, excuse me, much of your intellectual labor to the bottom line. And again, it's all driven by competition. So quiet quitting is, as I said, here's kind of the key behaviors, which is stepping out of work, underproducing, hiding, pretending to work. This doesn't work in the long run because you're still playing the game. We haven't changed the rules yet. All you're doing is you're kind of like, eh, I'm just gonna screw around. So we have to talk more about, okay, how do we change the rules, which we'll get to that in a minute. Then there's the great resignation. So the great resignation happened as a backlash of workers to the, well, what about the economy? Like, oh no, the economy, like, who cares if the economy, right? Like, oh no, the economy, like who cares if the economy craters? And also when people say that, they're usually looking at the stock market, which there is a huge disconnect between the stock market and everybody else. Something like 90% of people are not really impacted by the stock market. It might be a little bit less than that. It might be like 70 to 80%, but the point is, is that the economy is not the stock market and also there are still quartiles and quintiles. And people in the bottom 50% they don't really care except for how the economy impacts their grocery bills and their wages. Now, because of neoliberalism and because of Calvinism and everything else that I've talked about, our entire purpose for being has become GDP. Technically, neoliberals say that individual liberty, quote-unquote, allows us to decide purpose for ourselves. But when every job, every bill, every economic report all focuses on GDP, we get the message over and over again that our entire purpose is to be an economic cog. And that's no way to live. So, the great resignation is, there's two parts of it. One is a lot of people quit to change jobs, but in another case, a lot of people are exiting the labor market entirely, like myself, and that's because it's like, this isn't fair and this isn't sustainable and I don't care anymore. And so this creates a huge brain drain on corporations. like, this isn't fair and this isn't sustainable and I don't care anymore. And so this creates a huge brain drain on corporations. And what I mean by that is someone as smart as me decides, you know what, I'm going to capture more of my own value instead of working for someone else and allowing them to capture my value. I'm going to, I'm a smart guy, so I'm going to do that for myself. Another big component of that is dignity and respect. And what I mean by that is, for an employer to treat you with dignity and respect means that they treat you like a person. They don't just expect you to just produce, produce, produce. They give you time and space and that sort of thing. And to be fair, many employers do that really well, but the corporation as a whole might not. And I'll talk about that more in just a second. So now I also mentioned that there, you know, so some people are exiting the labor force altogether. Some people are just changing jobs. There was a recent report, I think it was on Forbes or Fortune, where it said like 80% of Gen Z who quit regretted it. So what's going on there? Is it, you know, grass isn't always greener? Maybe. There could also be some backlash and resentment of employers, like, oh, you're a ship jumper. Okay, well, I'm going to punish you for doing that. Now, I want to also say the great resignation doesn't necessarily work for everyone. One, not everyone can YOLO out of their workplace. And two, some people regret it anyways. So just like quiet quitting is not sustainable, neither is the great resignation, but these trends indicate that there is a lot of energy and a lot of anger and a lot of desire to change things and fix them. So there's one last problem that I want to talk about. And it's a term that I coined, at least as far as I know I'm the one who came up with it. I originally called it academic codependence, but then I realized it actually has much broader implications. And so I called it, I broadened the scope and called it institutional codependence. And so let me just read the definition of codependency. Codependency is a term, and keep in mind, this is not necessarily between individuals, this is between you and your workplace, or you and your government, or you and your university. Codependency is a term used to describe a type of relationship in which one person supports or enables another person's addiction, poor mental health, or irresponsibility. It is characterized by a lack of boundaries, a tendency to sacrifice one's own needs for the sake of the relationship, and an excessive focus on the for the sake of the relationship, and an excessive focus on the needs and problems of the other person. Codependency can lead to feelings of low self-esteem, guilt, and an inability to assert one's own needs, and it is often seen as a destructive pattern in relationships. Now think about this in terms of your job. You are often expected to sacrifice your needs for the company. I've literally been told that. I was when I was working at a tech giant. I had a boss unironically say, well, the company's got to come first. And, you know, I reported them to HR and they didn't do anything because, well, HR doesn't care. And then think about this also in terms of your relationship with academia. So I have a lot of friends who are PhDs and researchers and teachers, and the amount of abuse that academics are expected to absorb for low pay is really strange. It's like academia is one of the most abusive and exploitative environments. And I don't, well, no, I do know why. It just, it still baffles me. So one of the reasons is because there's very few seats at the table. So whenever there's scarcity, there's, you end up with greater competition and it becomes very, very vicious. So there's vicious competition, there's few seats at the table, and also low pay. So it's like, okay, this is not a good environment. And this is why a lot of people leave academia for private industry because their salary goes up by 2x, 3x, or 4x, and they're treated better. I've known people that they discovered this when they finally graduated or left academia They're like I'm treated like a celebrity in private industry and it's like yes, because you're actually being paid what you're worth and finally We also are we have this excessive focus on GDP, right? This is why I call it institutional codependency is We are told that our boundaries and our needs don't matter, the economy and economic productivity matters more than we do. And so now, because of this, the government, corporations, and universities have a monopoly on your value as an economic unit, or by defining you as an economic unit, rather than as a person. And you must participate in this system whether or not you like it, whether or not you agree with it, because otherwise you starve. And technically you can vote with your feet, but that can be really difficult. Not everyone has the privilege to change jobs, and even if you do, a lot of companies, one is more like the other, and also, we have the same federal government, unless you expatriate to another nation, but even then, you're going to be subservient to some nation somewhere, and they've all got problems. And this is one of the fantasies of a lot of libertarians, is the idea of, just get all of this off of me. I don't want to have any institutional codependence with anyone. Problem is, there's nowhere that you can go that someone is not going to have some power or influence over you. So sorry, libertarians, it is a fantasy. And so that is institutional codependence, and so I wanted to underpin this. This is another barrier to reframing everything. So I've painted a really bleak picture. Let's start looking at what we can do. So first is this idea of cottagecore and slow living. These are super popular lately. There's all kinds of youtubers all over the planet that champion cottagecore, slow living, and other kinds of idyllic things. So what is this? If you haven't heard of cottagecore or slow living or any of the other slow trends, this is an idealization and romanticization of idyllic, rustic, and bucolic lifestyles. Basically, it is an escape fantasy to get away from the daily grind of factories, urbanization, and corporate life. It is a desire to return to simpler ways and easier times as outlined at the beginning of this video because in the past, most of us did live simpler lives. And there are plenty of places in the world where they do still live these simpler lives. Like I said, rural places in Europe and probably other places. I haven't visited them so I don't know. But there are plenty of rural places that do have a slower pace of life. So this escape fantasy is mostly for those of us from urban environments, which considering that more than half of the global population lives in cities now, a majority of the people are urban. This is generally, so when I say this, what I mean is cottagecore and slow living is a western response to the problem of burnout. So burnout, I mentioned this at the beginning of the video, burnout is the state of just total collapse because you can't do it anymore. One of the problems with cottagecore and slow living is that it can be marketed. You can just wrap it up and productize it, kind of like how feminism has become a marketing ploy. Girl bosses and the other girl and not like other girls and hashtag whatever, that is where feminism has been just repackaged and sold. Kind of like the Che Guevara shirts, right? The irony there. So anyways, one of the problems with cottagecore and slow living is that a lot of people are confused by the aesthetic of it and they see it more as a performative signal of something that I can just demonstrate on social media. Cottagecore and Slow Living is not something that you demonstrate via TikTok or YouTube or Instagram or whatever people are using these days. It is a way of living and it is a mentality. It is good that some people popularize it and demonstrate it, but a lot of people still kind of get confused and they apply their workaholic, their busy-holic mentality to it, saying, ah, now I need to virtue signal with cottagecore. Just like people virtue signal with everything, social justice, feminism, masculinity. We, because we are so obsessed with competition, we tend to productize and commercialize everything and then we want a virtue signal about it. So, let's take a deeper look at cottagecore and slow living and what it actually, if you really embrace it, what does it mean? So the first thing is that cottagecore and slow living is an anti-consumption and anti-consumerist mentality. So when I say mentality, it's not just a matter of making choices of, oh, I'm gonna consume less, it's changing the way that you emotionally orient towards consumerism, towards consumption, where it's, what's another way of saying this? Where you update your values. Where you say, I act, like for me, I can talk about it from a personal perspective, I actively dislike any messages that tell me to consume. That tell me you need more. It is a rejection of that idea that I need to spend money in order to be a person. That I need to engage in conspicuous consumption to demonstrate my wealth, to virtue signal my productivity. So that's what I mean by mentality. It is a change of moral values and emotional responses to these messages. And first, in order to become anti-consumption, you have to be aware of consumption messages. To be anti-consumerist, you have to be aware of consumption messages. To be anti-consumerist, you have to be aware of consumerism. It is also a re-evaluation of productivity, purpose, and meaning. So Sorrel Amore, or Sorrel, I don't know how she pronounces her name, she just came up with a video a week or two ago talking about re-evaluating purpose, or sorry, productivity. In her video, she talks about redefining productivity. This is still kind of a Western approach of it, like, oh, well, the underlying assumption is that you always have to be productive. What I'm saying is, first, no, you don't. But she's going in the right direction, and that is by redefining productivity into things that are more healthy, positive, and aligned with your needs as a human. So for instance, she talks about like, sex is actually productive to her because it is good for relationships. Exercising and eating well is productive because it's good for your body. Play, singing, dancing is all productive because it is good for your mental health. So I like it, but it is still just kind of grafting on workaholism and just changing the signals. But what, so what I mean, what the underlying thing is, we have to reevaluate what is our purpose in life. And we have several centuries of cultural baggage telling us that our purpose is to be productive. Remember, Calvinism goes back to the 16th century, the 1500s. And we also are in the midst of a crisis of meaning, what I call the nihilistic crisis, which basically says nothing has any meaning, so we have no purpose, so therefore what do we do? And the capitalists come in and say, your purpose is to work. Cottage corn slow living is a very deliberate rejection of hustle culture. Therefore, what do we do? And the capitalists come in and say, your purpose is to work. Cottage corn slow living is a very deliberate rejection of hustle culture. It's basically saying, actually, no, I'm gonna do the opposite. I'm gonna do as little as possible. And finally, cottage corn slow living is another way of looking at it is it is a rejection of neoliberalism. It says actually I'm not going to consume, actually I'm not going to participate in the market, actually I'm going to do a whole bunch of other stuff. It takes a lot of time to unpack. Trust me I've been working on it for a few years now. But basically the underpinning assertion is my time and my life are my own. That is the core thrust of cottage core and slow living. Okay so if you as I said it can take a long time to really engage with the idea of slow living and also not everyone can make these choices as I mentioned not everyone can become a YouTube producer or content creator or an entrepreneur or whatever else. Many people do have to keep working, which means that we have to change our relationship with employers. We have to change the nature of the view between employee and employer. So there's the concepts of remote work and flex work, which fortunately, recent global events really kind of proved that remote work and flex work are a thing. Many people have remote only jobs, global teams, asynchronous work. This is all what I mean by remote and flex work. Now there's another aspect of this, which many employers actually do embrace, at least managers and mid-level managers do, I'm not so sure about the rest of organizations and C-level, but it's basically a people-first mentality. My last boss that I had, he said this when I first started. He's like, I don't care when or how the work gets done, just as long as it gets done. I had a tremendous amount of privilege to work whenever, wherever, however best suited me. Sometimes I'd wake up and work at six in the morning, I'd be done by nine in the morning, and then I'd go for a hike, and everyone was super happy with me. Why? Because I'd get up and do my work, I'd make sure that stuff advanced, and then I'd send a couple emails, attend whatever meetings I needed to, and then I was done for the day. And like I said, you can only do two to three hours of intellectual labor per day anyways, so I just did it all in one chunk first thing in the morning. Everyone was perfectly happy with me. Because my workplace gave me that flexibility, that was much better for me. Now, I do wanna say that HR seems like they haven't caught up, and I don't mean in just one company, I mean broadly. HR doesn't seem to really comprehend this, and I don't think many C-level people do either, especially when you see a whole bunch of C-level executives say like, oh, we need to get people back in the office, right? Because they fundamentally don't understand how work happens. Oh, and I did have an insight into this. I figured out why a lot of executive leadership is really focused on getting back into the office, and that is because most of their work is done face-to-face in meetings. To them, productivity can only happen by having face-to-face meetings, and I'm saying this as a freshly minted CEO myself. Yes, face-to-face meetings, infinitely more productive than remote work. However, as a former individual contributor, I will say that remote work, as an individual contributor, is infinitely more productive. So there's a huge disconnect, because CEOs, they're like, I'm in meetings all day, I'm working face-to- face, I'm in the office, and they feel productive and they think everyone should do exactly what they've done, but what many CEOs fail to realize, and other C-level people, is that actually, it's been so long since they've been an individual contributor, and many of them were individual contributors before remote work was even possible, and so they don't realize how productive you can be as an individual contributor working from a coffee shop halfway around the world. That is one of the major disconnects. So, as CEOs like myself are up and coming, we are gonna say, you know what, and I'm not saying that I'm the first crop of this, there's already plenty that get this, but it's going to become more and more of a status quo. So I wanted to read a quotation to you. It's kind of a paraphrase, it's a shortened version, but people will always do the least that is required of them to get by. And the person who said this was my grandfather. He told me this about 20 years ago. And he was a vice president at Coca-Cola during Coca-Cola's heyday. So he was like maximum over business, you know, like way high up there. I actually got to ride in a limo when I was a kid because of that. So you know, yes, I do have some privilege in my background. But I wanted to have this quotation because what that exemplifies was the antagonistic or extractive mentality between employee and employer, which is based on that Industrial Revolution model of your time is your most valuable thing and I want as much of your time as you can give me. With knowledge work that no longer applies. So what I prefer is the learning organization model as elucidated by the fifth discipline by, I can't remember the author right now. Anyways, you look up the fifth discipline. So a learning organization is a concept that has a lot of principles, but some of the primary principles, certainly those that struck me the most, is that you have to adopt the belief that all humans are super intelligent and should be treated as such, not as just labor cogs. And I adopted this mentality and I started treating my coworkers and the people that reported to me, and I still do this as an entrepreneur, I treat people as if they're all geniuses. I say, you are the smartest organism on the planet, act like it. I don't make it like demanding. I'm like, I give you the space to figure it out because I trust that you can. And invariably, people will rise above. Why? Because humans actively enjoy learning. People actively enjoy overcoming and healthy challenges. This is a fundamental truth of humanity that neoliberalism fails to account for. And if you don't believe me, look at gaming. There is an entire industry built around creating artificial challenges. People love challenges. I actually figured this out by talking to educators. Specifically, there was a middle school teacher who taught computer science programming and gaming, and he pointed out children, adults, everyone, they do the exact behaviors that you want them to in school and work. They will get organized, they'll collaborate, they'll learn on their own, they'll strategize. They will struggle and fight and work to overcome problems. And in the case of video games, they're all artificial problems. And it's like, okay, how do we get that level of commitment and involvement into schools and into workplaces? And the way that you do that is you adopt a learning organization mentality and you realize that humans actually really enjoy challenges. We get so much self-esteem from overcoming challenges. And so what I do as a leader, as a supervisor before, and now a CEO, is I give people challenges and I say, do your best. I don't expect productivity, I expect you to learn. And that works so well. And I'll talk a little bit more about some of the Eastern wisdom that this came from actually right now. So there's certainly some sources in the West that come from this. The Fifth Discipline, absolutely one of the best books that you should read. I recommend that you read, if you read nothing else, just read about the learning organization idea. Now, that being said, if you're familiar with my work, you know that I am a big student of Western, Eastern, and now also Southern philosophy and spirituality. So I wanna add a couple ideas about how to reclaim your life with the help of Eastern wisdom. So first is the concept of Wabi-Sabi. Wabi-Sabi is a Japanese worldview, it's not just a spirituality or philosophy, it is an entire worldview, excuse me, that intertwines the natural way of things and the passage of time and focuses on an easeful attitude towards existence. So remember at the beginning of the video where I talked about for the majority of human history we have been, a big part of making our living is just allowing nature to run its course? That is one of the central components of Wabi Sabi. I'm still reading about it so I'll probably talking about Wabi Sabi for a while but it's like oh I realize like I've kind of already got a model for this. So read up on Wabi Sabi. It is a super valuable way of engaging with not just life or work, but it's a way of looking at existence, a way of looking at the purpose of life. Another concept is Ichigo-ichi, which is the Japanese concept of appreciating moments for what they are and understanding that all moments are ephemeral, and then taking the joy and pleasure and peace from those moments and just appreciating it for what it is because again nothing is permanent and this is why like the cherry blossom festival in Japan is super popular because as a culture they understand this is a beautiful moment and it is rare and it should be appreciated and treasured as such this is also why Japanese architecture is very much in tune with nature. Taoism. Taoism is a philosophy of alignment with quote the way or the Tao. Speaking of, you actually know what this is because you've probably heard of Star Wars and the Force. George Lucas based the force on Taoism. So the primary way of implementing Taoism is, it is underpinned by wu wei, which is the art of not doing. And this is primarily a philosophy of leadership. And basically as a philosophy of leadership, it says, let things run their course. It's a lot more nuanced than that but basically you create the environment that allows for productivity, you create the environment that allows for learning and for problems to be solved and for work to get done and then you take your hands off. And the reason that Taoism resonated with me is because I also had that model of the learning organization. This is why, for me, teaching is one of the primary core business competencies as a leader. If I want things done a certain way or if I want productivity to happen, I make sure that I teach people how to do it, and then because they thrive on challenge and growth, they do it, they take it from there. I just let nature run its course. Finally, Zen. So Zen is something that I studied many years ago. It kind of fell by the wayside but it's still very much incorporated into the way that I think about things. So if you look up a definition of Zen, they talk a lot about meditation. Meditation is just one act but really what Zen is about is it's a lot about meditation. Meditation is just one act, but really what Zen is about is it's a philosophy of insight to discern and distill the actual truth of things by seeking simplicity and minimalism and letting go of as much as possible. And so by critically evaluating, re-evaluating, questioning, and scrutinizing your beliefs, that is the purpose of meditation, is it's an internal scrutinization. You can let go of baggage, beliefs and assumptions that aren't helpful. That is the primary benefit of Zen. So you include this Eastern wisdom, you apply it to the way that you approach work. If you're a manager or leader, you apply it to the way that you lead. And for everyone, you apply it to the way that you lead. And if for everyone, you apply it to the way that you live and orient towards yourself and your own purpose. And finally, the coming AI revolution. It comes down to two basic facts. One, humans are expensive to employ. And two, capitalism is about seeking efficiency. Therefore, machines will eventually be cheaper and more productive for pretty much all jobs, and finally, that means jobs are going away. It's that simple. I made a whole video about it on my other channel called the AI Jobpocalypse. Go check it out if you don't believe me. I got data to back up these claims. So what happens when we all lose our jobs? I am presently predicting, and this is not, this is just kind of an intuitive guess, I'm predicting that we will be facing about 70% unemployment by 2030. Let me say that again. We will have 70% unemployment in America by the year 2030. It could be more, it could be less. I could be wrong It might take longer might never happen I don't know but based on the trends that I'm saying and what I see technology being capable of We will be forced to re-evaluate Why we exist and what do we want and why the reason is because for now, our identity has been staked on economic productivity. We will have to ask questions like, what does fair mean? Let me say that again. We will be forced to ask questions and ask, what does fair mean? We will have various principles and beliefs that we have held for a long time challenged. Labor is holy. What happens when machines do all the labor for us, or most of it? There's also a belief that I don't support, and I feel like I presented enough data to challenge this belief. Technology always creates jobs. I don't think so. Certainly not for the last 20 years. With this, one of the conclusions that you could come to is that redistribution of some sort will be necessary. And I don't mean Marxism. I don't mean collective ownership or socialism. What I mean though is that robot taxes is probably the way it'll be implemented. Robot taxes and then redistribution probably as some kind of basic income will probably be necessary and the reason is because hunger is the primary driver of revolution. Look at the French Revolution, let them eat cake. Look at the Arab Spring, a fruit vendor had their cart taken by the police and then the Arab world like collectively said enough is enough. Look at the lockdowns in China where people have been starved in their apartments for months. They said enough was enough. And also look at the grain dole in Rome. Grain was redistributed in order to keep the masses from revolting. So you have hungry people, you come up with a solution. Generally you, Rome figured out you redistribute food. French Revolution might not have happened if they figured out redistribution earlier, so on and so forth. So that's what's coming. And we've only got a few years left before some of this will be necessary. And with that said, thank you for watching. I hope you found this helpful. said, thank you for watching. I hope you found this helpful.", "chunks": [{"timestamp": [0.0, 1.6], "text": " Morning, everybody."}, {"timestamp": [1.6, 6.0], "text": " David Shapiro here with another video."}, {"timestamp": [6.0, 13.56], "text": " Today's video is a topic called Reclaiming Your Life, Redefining Productivity."}, {"timestamp": [13.56, 19.76], "text": " So I often figure out what direction to get from my audience by just doing little polls"}, {"timestamp": [19.76, 22.16], "text": " and I kind of see what resonates."}, {"timestamp": [22.16, 28.88], "text": " And this idea, I just like had an off-the-cuff idea of like, hey, reprioritizing life and"}, {"timestamp": [28.88, 30.96], "text": " overcoming workaholism."}, {"timestamp": [30.96, 34.16], "text": " That's what I've been working on for the last few months."}, {"timestamp": [34.16, 35.92], "text": " And so I was just like, yeah, let's throw it out."}, {"timestamp": [35.92, 36.92], "text": " And then it was like 65%."}, {"timestamp": [36.92, 40.84], "text": " So I was like, okay, this clearly resonated."}, {"timestamp": [40.84, 43.72], "text": " So let's go ahead and dive right in."}, {"timestamp": [43.72, 45.84], "text": " Little background on me, I"}, {"timestamp": [45.84, 53.88], "text": " am high IQ, although IQ is kind of a BS thing, so but anyways I was lazy as heck"}, {"timestamp": [53.88, 60.32], "text": " throughout school because grades were easy and then due to a series of events"}, {"timestamp": [60.32, 64.44], "text": " my mom died when I was a teenager and a few other things, had a difficult"}, {"timestamp": [64.44, 69.32], "text": " childhood, so I gave up on life. I did absolutely nothing after high school for about two or"}, {"timestamp": [69.32, 74.96], "text": " three years. And when I say nothing I mean like I stayed up all night playing video games."}, {"timestamp": [74.96, 81.12], "text": " Then I got my girlfriend pregnant at the time and that really woke me up out of my stupor"}, {"timestamp": [81.12, 87.68], "text": " and I got my act together. She got an abortion, that was"}, {"timestamp": [84.8, 90.44], "text": " her choice, which I supported and we"}, {"timestamp": [87.68, 92.44], "text": " separated, but that was enough to wake me"}, {"timestamp": [90.44, 94.48], "text": " up and so I kept, you know, I was like, okay well"}, {"timestamp": [92.44, 98.68], "text": " I guess I'm gonna re-engage with life now."}, {"timestamp": [94.48, 102.08], "text": " So I got into IT and discovered that real"}, {"timestamp": [98.68, 105.2], "text": " work is actually rewarding, unlike school."}, {"timestamp": [102.08, 106.84], "text": " The harder you work, the harder you"}, {"timestamp": [103.8, 110.4], "text": " work, the smarter you are, the more you"}, {"timestamp": [106.84, 113.56], "text": " can advance in the workplace. I decided to"}, {"timestamp": [110.4, 117.68], "text": " get good as kids these days say. I built"}, {"timestamp": [113.56, 120.04], "text": " a six-figure career, but then I burned"}, {"timestamp": [117.68, 122.6], "text": " out repeatedly. Some of that was due to"}, {"timestamp": [120.04, 125.16], "text": " work, some of that was due to events in"}, {"timestamp": [122.6, 126.32], "text": " my life, namely toxic relationships. And finally,"}, {"timestamp": [127.92, 133.76], "text": " I think it was what, two or three weeks ago, I finally retired from my corporate job. Now I am"}, {"timestamp": [133.76, 139.76], "text": " a YouTuber and entrepreneur. So that is some framing about me, how I got here, and why I am"}, {"timestamp": [139.76, 147.62], "text": " talking about this. Part one, workaholism. Let's do a deep dive, a brief history on our"}, {"timestamp": [147.62, 153.12], "text": " toxic relationship with work. So a lot of this information comes from a book"}, {"timestamp": [153.12, 158.3], "text": " called Do Nothing by Celeste Headley, I've got it on my bookshelf over"}, {"timestamp": [158.3, 163.86], "text": " there. It is a good book and then also Lazy Does Not Exist by Devin"}, {"timestamp": [163.86, 166.76], "text": " Price. Both of these books do a really good job"}, {"timestamp": [166.76, 169.4], "text": " of unpacking everything about why we have"}, {"timestamp": [169.4, 171.44], "text": " a toxic relationship with work,"}, {"timestamp": [171.44, 173.54], "text": " but I found them a little bit disappointing"}, {"timestamp": [173.54, 176.64], "text": " because they did not offer comprehensive solutions."}, {"timestamp": [176.64, 180.36], "text": " I will offer what I hope will come across"}, {"timestamp": [180.36, 182.9], "text": " as a much more comprehensive set of solutions"}, {"timestamp": [182.9, 189.92], "text": " in the second part of this video. So but the short the super short version is that industrialization wrecked"}, {"timestamp": [189.92, 193.68], "text": " everything. Not saying that life was peachy keen before that for everybody"}, {"timestamp": [193.68, 198.12], "text": " but you will see what I mean by like industrialization changed way too much."}, {"timestamp": [198.12, 203.12], "text": " Then neoliberalism doubled down on it again I will unpack that a little bit"}, {"timestamp": [203.12, 205.34], "text": " add in a backdrop of"}, {"timestamp": [205.34, 212.0], "text": " Calvinism and Protestantism and we have a very, very disordered view of work,"}, {"timestamp": [212.0, 218.72], "text": " property, and righteousness and purpose. Okay, so let's dial it all the way back"}, {"timestamp": [218.72, 223.16], "text": " to Paleolithic humans. We were hunter-gatherers and this is before we"}, {"timestamp": [223.16, 230.68], "text": " were Homo sapiens. This is our predecessors. Neanderthal, Australopithecus, and all those other ones"}, {"timestamp": [230.68, 236.8], "text": " that were proto humans or pre humans. We were hunter-gatherers and it all came"}, {"timestamp": [236.8, 242.44], "text": " down to energy density of available foods. And what I mean by that is how"}, {"timestamp": [242.44, 245.04], "text": " many calories can you get from certain"}, {"timestamp": [245.04, 250.92], "text": " activities. A red deer which is not particularly big has about a hundred and"}, {"timestamp": [250.92, 256.08], "text": " fifty thousand calories. So you kill one deer and you can feed yourself and your"}, {"timestamp": [256.08, 266.56], "text": " tribe, which the average human tribe was about 19 members throughout most of history. So you do some math, that's what?"}, {"timestamp": [266.56, 270.2], "text": " 2000 calories a day times 20,"}, {"timestamp": [270.2, 272.32], "text": " so that's what, 40,000 calories?"}, {"timestamp": [272.32, 274.56], "text": " No, 400,000 calories?"}, {"timestamp": [274.56, 278.34], "text": " So one deer is enough to feed everyone"}, {"timestamp": [278.34, 280.46], "text": " for at least half a day or whatever,"}, {"timestamp": [280.46, 281.76], "text": " if I did my math right."}, {"timestamp": [281.76, 286.4], "text": " Anyways, then you spend the rest of time gathering, fishing,"}, {"timestamp": [286.4, 294.6], "text": " mending clothes, and resting. So because of the energy density of hunting, this is"}, {"timestamp": [294.6, 300.2], "text": " why predators sleep so much. Cats sleep 20 hours a day and the reason is because"}, {"timestamp": [300.2, 308.14], "text": " they have very short periods of high intensity and then the rest of the time is just conserving energy."}, {"timestamp": [308.14, 313.14], "text": " Pre-agrarian societies with access to things like sheep"}, {"timestamp": [313.44, 316.8], "text": " and then eventually agrarian societies"}, {"timestamp": [316.8, 319.5], "text": " with access to high efficiency grains,"}, {"timestamp": [319.5, 321.42], "text": " most of what you'd spend your time doing"}, {"timestamp": [321.42, 323.9], "text": " is waiting for nature to run its course."}, {"timestamp": [323.9, 329.84], "text": " The sheep would go graze, the shepherd just kind of watches the flock, or you're waiting"}, {"timestamp": [329.84, 331.96], "text": " for the grain to grow."}, {"timestamp": [331.96, 336.48], "text": " Otherwise, you are saving energy."}, {"timestamp": [336.48, 337.92], "text": " Another thing is fishing."}, {"timestamp": [337.92, 338.92], "text": " Fishing is very efficient."}, {"timestamp": [338.92, 343.44], "text": " I couldn't find specific numbers, but it seems like at least in some areas, fishing actually"}, {"timestamp": [343.44, 348.0], "text": " has the highest yield of calories per hour spent."}, {"timestamp": [348.0, 353.68], "text": " And so basically, our natural state, the environment that we evolved in for the past several million"}, {"timestamp": [353.68, 361.52], "text": " years is that of very intense short bursts of activity, like you go on a big hunt or"}, {"timestamp": [361.52, 369.76], "text": " you go out fishing, and then the rest of the time is inactivity, rest, and waiting. That is our natural state. So please keep that in"}, {"timestamp": [369.76, 374.08], "text": " mind for the rest of the video is that our natural state is you know go on the"}, {"timestamp": [374.08, 379.6], "text": " big hunt and then you wait, you sleep, because our brains make us apex"}, {"timestamp": [379.6, 384.4], "text": " predators. We are such good predators that even wolves said you know what"}, {"timestamp": [384.4, 387.72], "text": " you've got something going on we're gonna domesticate ourselves and come along"}, {"timestamp": [387.72, 391.76], "text": " with you on the hunt. Wolves are also apex predators, right? And then we come"}, {"timestamp": [391.76, 395.06], "text": " along and they're like, actually you got this figured out. So when I talk"}, {"timestamp": [395.06, 400.22], "text": " about why predators sleep so much, we must think of ourselves as apex"}, {"timestamp": [400.22, 405.16], "text": " predators. We're also omnivores, which means we can we learn to tame the land"}, {"timestamp": [405.16, 412.92], "text": " and we'll get into that in just a moment. So the rise of agriculture. The Tigris"}, {"timestamp": [412.92, 416.32], "text": " and Euphrates are often called the cradle of civilization but personally I"}, {"timestamp": [416.32, 422.92], "text": " prefer to look at the Nile River as a better example. One, because life along"}, {"timestamp": [422.92, 425.0], "text": " the Nile is still pretty much as it has"}, {"timestamp": [425.0, 432.04], "text": " been for literally thousands of years. The pace of life is very, very slow. The"}, {"timestamp": [432.04, 438.68], "text": " Nile regularly floods as rains and snow melt from thousands of miles upstream is"}, {"timestamp": [438.68, 443.72], "text": " very reliable. And when the Nile floods all the nutrients are put in the fields"}, {"timestamp": [443.72, 446.46], "text": " which then makes them fertile and productive."}, {"timestamp": [446.46, 452.62], "text": " And so this is an example of a natural state of being, even for agrarian and agricultural"}, {"timestamp": [452.62, 458.18], "text": " societies where still most of what you're doing is waiting for nature to run its course."}, {"timestamp": [458.18, 467.52], "text": " In fact, and I'm not saying all farming along the Nile River and Nile Delta is still done exactly"}, {"timestamp": [467.52, 473.64], "text": " the same way it was for thousands of years, but you can see people using very old school"}, {"timestamp": [473.64, 474.64], "text": " tools and stuff."}, {"timestamp": [474.64, 479.68], "text": " And you see here where there's a camel and a donkey still being used, right?"}, {"timestamp": [479.68, 483.56], "text": " That is how efficient agriculture can be."}, {"timestamp": [483.56, 485.32], "text": " And so I also wanted to use this to underscore"}, {"timestamp": [485.32, 492.0], "text": " the power of reliable calories. Egypt for many thousands of years was far and"}, {"timestamp": [492.0, 497.12], "text": " away the most powerful and organized civilization. They had something like 30"}, {"timestamp": [497.12, 506.08], "text": " dynasties, not 30 kings or queens or pharaohs in a row, 30 dynasties in a row."}, {"timestamp": [506.08, 511.36], "text": " They built the first mega projects on the entire planet that we know of and then I added"}, {"timestamp": [511.36, 514.24], "text": " a nice little hashtag Younger Dryas."}, {"timestamp": [514.24, 519.48], "text": " I have no idea whether or not there are older civilizations that predate them but there's"}, {"timestamp": [519.48, 525.68], "text": " some evidence that people were in places and doing things earlier than perhaps we think."}, {"timestamp": [526.64, 532.48], "text": " So anyways, sheep, goats, camels, cows, oxen, elephants even."}, {"timestamp": [532.48, 537.04], "text": " The domestication of animals to help out with the stuff also proved to be a great strategy."}, {"timestamp": [537.68, 543.28], "text": " There was a documentary that I watched years ago that concluded that the two primary ingredients"}, {"timestamp": [543.28, 546.36], "text": " for civilization to form was access to a"}, {"timestamp": [546.36, 551.36], "text": " cereal crop, specifically a productive cereal crop, and some kind of"}, {"timestamp": [551.36, 557.44], "text": " domesticable farm animal, whether it was, you know, the ones that I listed."}, {"timestamp": [557.44, 562.44], "text": " Anytime that a people had access to those two things, they would"}, {"timestamp": [562.44, 568.64], "text": " eventually form a civilization. And that's why, for instance, in some places such as the Amazon rainforest and"}, {"timestamp": [568.64, 572.2], "text": " other places, there are cultures that have been there for thousands of years"}, {"timestamp": [572.2, 578.0], "text": " and these are highly productive places, but those two"}, {"timestamp": [578.0, 581.32], "text": " ingredients are missing so that they couldn't organize into a larger society."}, {"timestamp": [581.32, 587.92], "text": " So even though there's plenty of food on you know in the Amazon River and Amazon rainforest, they didn't have access to beasts of"}, {"timestamp": [587.92, 593.28], "text": " burden or cereal crops. Okay so fast-forwarding a little little ways"}, {"timestamp": [593.28, 599.8], "text": " from you know the the Neolithic and Bronze Age and early Iron Age, we fast"}, {"timestamp": [599.8, 605.52], "text": " forward up to the Late Iron Age, the Age of Steel, and then Medieval times, this is where"}, {"timestamp": [605.52, 609.36], "text": " land law becomes really important."}, {"timestamp": [609.36, 617.06], "text": " And so Rome, the Roman Empire and the Roman Republic really started this idea of land"}, {"timestamp": [617.06, 624.08], "text": " as a commodity, land as something that we're going to create a lot of law around, contracts,"}, {"timestamp": [624.08, 626.44], "text": " courts. The first land barons were Roman,"}, {"timestamp": [626.44, 632.0], "text": " at least at a certain scale, the first huge ones. And these are people that"}, {"timestamp": [632.0, 637.96], "text": " owned hundreds of thousands of acres of farmland. And in fact, this was such a"}, {"timestamp": [637.96, 642.4], "text": " problematic move that it probably contributed somewhat to the downfall of"}, {"timestamp": [642.4, 651.3], "text": " Rome because a few people owned all the good land and then everyone else, you know, who was supposed to be paid in land were given"}, {"timestamp": [651.34, 653.34], "text": " the"}, {"timestamp": [653.52, 659.86], "text": " The worst parcels of land which reduced loyalty increased corruption so on and so forth and of course"}, {"timestamp": [660.36, 668.92], "text": " Corruption was a major contributing factor to the downfall of Rome. So after the Empire crumbled you end up with smaller fiefdoms because"}, {"timestamp": [668.92, 673.2], "text": " regardless of what's going on politically fertile land is still super"}, {"timestamp": [673.2, 676.88], "text": " super valuable. And then"}, {"timestamp": [676.88, 680.76], "text": " if you ever want to figure that out just look at the history of rivers"}, {"timestamp": [680.76, 684.72], "text": " whether it's the Nile, the Tigris and Euphrates, the Loire. I've actually been"}, {"timestamp": [684.72, 685.88], "text": " here. I went actually been here."}, {"timestamp": [685.88, 690.92], "text": " I went to France more than 10 years ago now, and I've been here."}, {"timestamp": [690.92, 696.48], "text": " You go up into these castles, these little fiefs, and all you see is green fields to"}, {"timestamp": [696.48, 698.4], "text": " the horizon."}, {"timestamp": [698.4, 707.76], "text": " The people that could own, control, and manage fertile land, typically around rivers, that was the beating heart of all"}, {"timestamp": [709.04, 713.44], "text": " economic activity for many hundreds of years, actually thousands of years."}, {"timestamp": [713.44, 722.48], "text": " And remember, it comes down to the access to reliable calories. And eutrophic rivers,"}, {"timestamp": [722.48, 726.56], "text": " so eutrophic rivers are the ones that have a lot of organic sediment"}, {"timestamp": [726.56, 728.72], "text": " or a lot of organic compounds."}, {"timestamp": [728.72, 731.56], "text": " Those are the fertile rivers, so when they flood their banks,"}, {"timestamp": [731.56, 736.04], "text": " they deposit a lot of fertilization on the land,"}, {"timestamp": [736.04, 739.6], "text": " the water can be used for irrigation, so on and so forth."}, {"timestamp": [739.6, 748.92], "text": " So with the exception of things like battles and war, basically, sorry, battles, harvesting"}, {"timestamp": [748.92, 753.46], "text": " time and planting time, they all generally have a very slow pace of life."}, {"timestamp": [753.46, 757.44], "text": " So if you ever visit rural France, Italy or Greece, I've been to France, my fiance has"}, {"timestamp": [757.44, 762.2], "text": " been to Greece, they have an exceptionally slow pace of life."}, {"timestamp": [762.2, 773.24], "text": " And that is because they are still basically agrarian in terms of lifestyle. So fast forward to the 1400s and 1500s, the Renaissance"}, {"timestamp": [773.24, 779.0], "text": " happens and we start to have a very different relationship with work."}, {"timestamp": [779.0, 787.48], "text": " Obviously at this time most people are still farmers in the cities, we start to have the origin"}, {"timestamp": [787.48, 789.52], "text": " of what you could call knowledge work,"}, {"timestamp": [789.52, 791.28], "text": " because we have merchants, we have bankers,"}, {"timestamp": [791.28, 793.32], "text": " we have artisans, we have guilds of all kinds,"}, {"timestamp": [793.32, 795.54], "text": " we have engineers, scribes."}, {"timestamp": [796.44, 798.1], "text": " Gutenberg's printing press comes out,"}, {"timestamp": [798.1, 801.34], "text": " which changes our relationship with learning and reading,"}, {"timestamp": [801.34, 803.48], "text": " because basically, the more books there are,"}, {"timestamp": [803.48, 805.8], "text": " the more opportunities people have to read,"}, {"timestamp": [805.8, 809.12], "text": " and also the more that learning becomes central"}, {"timestamp": [809.12, 811.58], "text": " to economic productivity and advancement."}, {"timestamp": [811.58, 813.68], "text": " And I will always drill this home,"}, {"timestamp": [813.68, 816.04], "text": " books are our superpower as a species."}, {"timestamp": [816.04, 817.48], "text": " And also I've apologized,"}, {"timestamp": [817.48, 819.88], "text": " I forgot to highlight some of the key words here."}, {"timestamp": [820.9, 824.92], "text": " We saw the rise of universities during the Renaissance."}, {"timestamp": [824.92, 826.78], "text": " Technically some of the oldest universities universities during the Renaissance. Technically, some of the oldest universities"}, {"timestamp": [826.78, 828.6], "text": " predate the Renaissance."}, {"timestamp": [828.6, 830.86], "text": " Oxford was founded in like 1100."}, {"timestamp": [831.72, 836.18], "text": " But the term university comes from the idea"}, {"timestamp": [836.18, 839.24], "text": " of the universal man, which is someone who is,"}, {"timestamp": [839.24, 842.3], "text": " has learned everything that there is to learn,"}, {"timestamp": [842.3, 844.52], "text": " which at the time, that was possible."}, {"timestamp": [844.52, 847.0], "text": " You read a few books, you'd go to a few classes,"}, {"timestamp": [847.0, 850.32], "text": " you could conceivably know everything"}, {"timestamp": [850.32, 851.28], "text": " that there was to learn,"}, {"timestamp": [851.28, 852.76], "text": " at least from an academic perspective."}, {"timestamp": [852.76, 855.44], "text": " You wouldn't master all trades or whatever,"}, {"timestamp": [855.44, 859.24], "text": " but education was seen as above trades."}, {"timestamp": [860.94, 867.32], "text": " And so education and learnedness were suddenly super popular and have been ever since so we have"}, {"timestamp": [867.88, 869.88], "text": " 500 years of this"}, {"timestamp": [870.08, 872.08], "text": " of this fixation on"}, {"timestamp": [872.72, 878.72], "text": " Education and learnedness and hold on. I need to pause for just a second. Okay, I'm back. Sorry about that"}, {"timestamp": [878.72, 884.16], "text": " I'm still a little congested. So I needed to make myself some tea. Also. I wanted to take this moment to"}, {"timestamp": [884.68, 888.96], "text": " Plug my patreon so you probably noticed that this video doesn't have any ads"}, {"timestamp": [888.96, 894.9], "text": " I'd like to keep it that way and I'm pretty close to being able to support myself indefinitely on patreon"}, {"timestamp": [895.16, 900.26], "text": " so if you like my content, please hop over to patreon link in the description and"}, {"timestamp": [900.84, 902.76], "text": " sign up and"}, {"timestamp": [902.76, 906.92], "text": " Yeah, if you if I get to where I need to be all of my videos will"}, {"timestamp": [906.92, 913.32], "text": " be ad free forever. Okay so we were on Renaissance so now let's fast forward to"}, {"timestamp": [913.32, 920.64], "text": " 1769 so this is the late Renaissance or early modern period I think that's"}, {"timestamp": [920.64, 929.58], "text": " early modernist technically the 18th century. James Watt, the Scottish dude, invents the steam engine in the middle of the 1700s."}, {"timestamp": [929.58, 935.02], "text": " So I kind of see this as the turning point for industrialization."}, {"timestamp": [935.02, 942.84], "text": " So suddenly, steam, aka wood and coal and oil and fire, became a way of harnessing a"}, {"timestamp": [942.84, 945.96], "text": " lot of energy very quickly."}, {"timestamp": [945.96, 951.22], "text": " Up until this point, all labor had to be done by humans or beasts of burden."}, {"timestamp": [951.22, 959.06], "text": " And so, as efficient as we are, we're not the best way of employing energy quickly."}, {"timestamp": [959.06, 964.94], "text": " Our muscles can only burn energy so fast, animals need rest, humans need rest, etc."}, {"timestamp": [964.94, 969.06], "text": " So with the invention of steam engines, we suddenly had this new source of energy that"}, {"timestamp": [969.06, 976.2], "text": " was 10x, 100x, 1000x higher output than human and animal labor."}, {"timestamp": [976.2, 988.96], "text": " So fast forward within 100 years, so mid 1700s, from 1800 to 1850 the population of London doubled due to factories and urbanization."}, {"timestamp": [990.16, 998.0], "text": " So now labor was no longer about letting the fields grow and letting nature run its course,"}, {"timestamp": [998.0, 1005.68], "text": " it was about tending to the machines and operating the machines. This was a huge, huge change."}, {"timestamp": [1005.68, 1008.44], "text": " So on the one hand, the good part"}, {"timestamp": [1008.44, 1011.76], "text": " is suddenly we had way more output."}, {"timestamp": [1011.76, 1016.2], "text": " Goods could be produced at higher volume, higher rate,"}, {"timestamp": [1016.2, 1017.16], "text": " more regularly."}, {"timestamp": [1017.16, 1019.96], "text": " Machines are tireless, but humans are not."}, {"timestamp": [1019.96, 1022.44], "text": " So while this was good for the economy,"}, {"timestamp": [1022.44, 1025.7], "text": " while this was good for our output of goods,"}, {"timestamp": [1025.7, 1028.18], "text": " it was not good for the human condition."}, {"timestamp": [1028.18, 1032.5], "text": " Now, I keep talking about letting nature run its course"}, {"timestamp": [1032.5, 1035.9], "text": " because this is a central theme to how we used to live"}, {"timestamp": [1035.9, 1037.66], "text": " and how we need to live,"}, {"timestamp": [1037.66, 1040.56], "text": " and it is not how we are living now."}, {"timestamp": [1040.56, 1044.58], "text": " So what I mean by this is that with the rise of factories"}, {"timestamp": [1044.58, 1048.0], "text": " and urbanization, the economic"}, {"timestamp": [1048.0, 1055.8], "text": " output of a factory was directly controlled by the number of hours worked."}, {"timestamp": [1055.8, 1062.68], "text": " So basically, a laborer can produce X number of widgets and gizmos per hour, so therefore"}, {"timestamp": [1062.68, 1065.44], "text": " the more hours they work, the more money the"}, {"timestamp": [1065.44, 1072.6], "text": " factory owner makes. So more hours, more goods, more money. So now time is money. Time is"}, {"timestamp": [1072.6, 1077.8], "text": " no longer something that you just let it pass. You spend time doing your own thing. You let"}, {"timestamp": [1077.8, 1088.02], "text": " nature run its course. Now time is directly tied to economic output. This was, this shattered our way of living."}, {"timestamp": [1088.02, 1092.76], "text": " This shattered our orientation to ourselves."}, {"timestamp": [1092.76, 1095.54], "text": " It shattered our orientation to the natural world"}, {"timestamp": [1095.54, 1097.28], "text": " and with time itself."}, {"timestamp": [1097.28, 1101.76], "text": " Our concept of time changed because of industrialization."}, {"timestamp": [1101.76, 1104.6], "text": " This fact cannot be overstated."}, {"timestamp": [1105.66, 1108.32], "text": " Now, I already mentioned this briefly,"}, {"timestamp": [1108.32, 1110.46], "text": " but during this entire time,"}, {"timestamp": [1110.46, 1115.24], "text": " we have this backdrop of Calvinism and Protestantism,"}, {"timestamp": [1115.24, 1117.62], "text": " which I asked, so I actually got this definition"}, {"timestamp": [1117.62, 1119.54], "text": " from a chat GPT."}, {"timestamp": [1119.54, 1121.9], "text": " I just asked it, like, please write a quick summary."}, {"timestamp": [1121.9, 1124.84], "text": " Or no, sorry, this came from Encyclopedia Britannica."}, {"timestamp": [1124.84, 1126.32], "text": " I apologize."}, {"timestamp": [1126.32, 1128.78], "text": " Protestant ethic and sociological theory,"}, {"timestamp": [1128.78, 1131.76], "text": " the value attached to hard work, thrift, and efficiency"}, {"timestamp": [1131.76, 1134.64], "text": " in one's Wardley calling, your occupation,"}, {"timestamp": [1134.64, 1136.44], "text": " which especially in the Calvinist view"}, {"timestamp": [1136.44, 1139.18], "text": " were deemed signs of an individual's election"}, {"timestamp": [1139.18, 1140.7], "text": " or eternal salvation."}, {"timestamp": [1141.92, 1147.0], "text": " In other words, economic productivity is now sacrosanct."}, {"timestamp": [1147.0, 1153.3], "text": " Your ability to work is considered holy and righteous."}, {"timestamp": [1153.3, 1163.0], "text": " So that ties your value as a soul, as a being, directly to how much you produce."}, {"timestamp": [1163.0, 1164.24], "text": " Does that sound familiar?"}, {"timestamp": [1164.24, 1166.58], "text": " This has been true for hundreds of years."}, {"timestamp": [1166.58, 1169.46], "text": " So Calvinism started in the 16th century,"}, {"timestamp": [1169.46, 1173.66], "text": " but it was formally codified into capitalism"}, {"timestamp": [1173.66, 1174.9], "text": " around the turn of the century,"}, {"timestamp": [1174.9, 1178.0], "text": " so the late 19th and early 20th centuries,"}, {"timestamp": [1178.0, 1182.78], "text": " and now has been secularized and embedded into neoliberalism"}, {"timestamp": [1182.78, 1184.78], "text": " which we'll go over in just a moment."}, {"timestamp": [1184.78, 1186.32], "text": " So the"}, {"timestamp": [1186.32, 1191.44], "text": " implications for this I've got here at the bottom. Guilt, shame, and fear were"}, {"timestamp": [1191.44, 1196.84], "text": " very deliberately and explicitly wrapped up in work ethic. That has been true for"}, {"timestamp": [1196.84, 1203.76], "text": " hundreds of years. Hustle culture is far older than you thought. So I want to"}, {"timestamp": [1203.76, 1206.64], "text": " reassert this. Time is money and"}, {"timestamp": [1206.64, 1212.48], "text": " money is good according to this doctrine. Money is godly. Your productivity is a"}, {"timestamp": [1212.48, 1218.44], "text": " sign of your favor with the divine. So now time is also your most valuable"}, {"timestamp": [1218.44, 1222.36], "text": " commodity and the capitalists and industrialists want to capture as much"}, {"timestamp": [1222.36, 1225.68], "text": " value that you produce for themselves."}, {"timestamp": [1225.68, 1231.88], "text": " There's all kinds of quotations from the 18th, 19th, and 20th century."}, {"timestamp": [1231.88, 1236.84], "text": " Many of them from capitalists, and a lot of them have this as kind of their basic underpinning,"}, {"timestamp": [1236.84, 1241.72], "text": " which is you should spend all of your time working or becoming more valuable, which means"}, {"timestamp": [1241.72, 1245.56], "text": " learning, practicing, gaining new trades, so on and so forth."}, {"timestamp": [1245.56, 1250.52], "text": " So no longer did we have this slow pace of life where we sit around eating and drinking"}, {"timestamp": [1250.52, 1253.28], "text": " and relaxing and socializing."}, {"timestamp": [1253.28, 1257.8], "text": " Now it is you work, your purpose is to work."}, {"timestamp": [1257.8, 1260.68], "text": " So whatever happened to letting nature run its course?"}, {"timestamp": [1260.68, 1265.6], "text": " We threw that out the window because we have science, technology, and engineering, damn it."}, {"timestamp": [1265.6, 1267.12], "text": " So clocks became evil."}, {"timestamp": [1267.12, 1268.88], "text": " We have a love-hate relationship with clocks."}, {"timestamp": [1268.88, 1274.04], "text": " Actually, one of my goals in life is to get rid of clocks and just operate by solar time."}, {"timestamp": [1274.04, 1275.44], "text": " I'm almost there."}, {"timestamp": [1275.44, 1282.4], "text": " So another thing that changed is other people started capturing more of our value."}, {"timestamp": [1282.4, 1287.62], "text": " So I will say that like I said, this is a new phenomenon, but not really,"}, {"timestamp": [1287.62, 1291.14], "text": " because there's always been some kind of hierarchy"}, {"timestamp": [1291.14, 1295.06], "text": " capturing value, whether it's through taxes, tithes,"}, {"timestamp": [1296.52, 1299.66], "text": " landowners, slave owners, so on and so forth."}, {"timestamp": [1299.66, 1301.78], "text": " So it's not necessarily new,"}, {"timestamp": [1301.78, 1305.44], "text": " but what changed was that almost everyone became"}, {"timestamp": [1305.44, 1311.02], "text": " subservient to the productivity that goes into someone else's pocket. Namely"}, {"timestamp": [1311.02, 1315.68], "text": " for the Industrial Revolution, the machine and factory owners or the"}, {"timestamp": [1315.68, 1319.8], "text": " landowners still, because now we end up with corporate farms. So I've mentioned"}, {"timestamp": [1319.8, 1325.6], "text": " neoliberalism a few times, so let me unpack what neoliberalism is."}, {"timestamp": [1325.6, 1330.36], "text": " Neoliberalism is the prevailing economic doctrine and it is important to"}, {"timestamp": [1330.36, 1336.12], "text": " remember that economics is a philosophy, not a science. That being said, they"}, {"timestamp": [1336.12, 1340.36], "text": " dress it up with science by having charts and numbers and graphs and stuff,"}, {"timestamp": [1340.36, 1346.48], "text": " but most of it comes down to beliefs and assertions of principles."}, {"timestamp": [1346.48, 1349.52], "text": " So what does neoliberalism do?"}, {"timestamp": [1349.52, 1355.4], "text": " Neoliberalism favors globalization, free markets, privatization, individual liberty, deregulation,"}, {"timestamp": [1355.4, 1356.96], "text": " and property rights."}, {"timestamp": [1356.96, 1362.36], "text": " These all probably sound really familiar because they are, quote unquote, the American way."}, {"timestamp": [1362.36, 1367.2], "text": " So in order to unpack why these are the principles,"}, {"timestamp": [1367.2, 1369.56], "text": " the doctrine of neoliberalism,"}, {"timestamp": [1369.56, 1372.96], "text": " I find it easier to unpack what are the core assumptions"}, {"timestamp": [1372.96, 1375.56], "text": " or the core beliefs or assertions"}, {"timestamp": [1375.56, 1377.88], "text": " that drive and underpin neoliberalism."}, {"timestamp": [1377.88, 1382.42], "text": " So here are some of the core underpinnings of neoliberalism."}, {"timestamp": [1382.42, 1385.96], "text": " So one, humans are fundamentally self-interested"}, {"timestamp": [1385.96, 1390.86], "text": " and that humans will always act in their own self-interest. Basically, we make"}, {"timestamp": [1390.86, 1397.84], "text": " rational decisions that focus on our needs. Again, this basically says"}, {"timestamp": [1397.84, 1401.56], "text": " humans are fundamentally greedy and we should build this into our economic"}, {"timestamp": [1401.56, 1405.68], "text": " policies. Another core belief is that the market"}, {"timestamp": [1405.68, 1409.72], "text": " is the most efficient mechanism for allocating resources. Free markets are"}, {"timestamp": [1409.72, 1410.96], "text": " the best way to price"}, {"timestamp": [1410.96, 1414.08], "text": " and surface goods and services."}, {"timestamp": [1414.08, 1418.76], "text": " Competition is good. Again, another thing, free market economics,"}, {"timestamp": [1418.76, 1423.04], "text": " competition drives down prices, forces us to seek new efficiencies."}, {"timestamp": [1423.04, 1426.16], "text": " One of the downsides of this is it also forces"}, {"timestamp": [1426.16, 1432.4], "text": " laborers to compete with each other. And so your salary is no longer what you're worth,"}, {"timestamp": [1432.4, 1436.4], "text": " your salary is what you can compete with in the labor market."}, {"timestamp": [1439.92, 1445.12], "text": " The role of government should be limited. That government which governs least governs best."}, {"timestamp": [1446.0, 1451.44], "text": " So the role of government should be rather than providing for the people, rather than providing"}, {"timestamp": [1451.44, 1456.56], "text": " the safety net and managing resources, the government should just focus on creating"}, {"timestamp": [1456.56, 1460.0], "text": " a safe and stable market and let the rest play out naturally."}, {"timestamp": [1462.32, 1466.4], "text": " And then finally, globalization is beneficial. The movement of goods, services,"}, {"timestamp": [1466.4, 1471.96], "text": " workers, and I should have said also information. Good services, I guess information is a good. So"}, {"timestamp": [1471.96, 1476.84], "text": " goods and services and workers around the planet allows for the market to find new efficiencies."}, {"timestamp": [1476.84, 1485.8], "text": " So while I did say that this is a philosophy, not a science, there is plenty of evidence to support these assumptions and"}, {"timestamp": [1485.8, 1487.62], "text": " doctrines."}, {"timestamp": [1487.62, 1492.56], "text": " But damn if it's not cold and clinical and soulless, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1492.56, 1497.96], "text": " That's the big problem is like, okay, yes, this is the best way to maximize efficiency,"}, {"timestamp": [1497.96, 1501.06], "text": " but we lose our humanity in the process."}, {"timestamp": [1501.06, 1505.76], "text": " And also what I will say is that there are very good reasons that neoliberalism"}, {"timestamp": [1505.76, 1513.7], "text": " became the global default in 1980 with the election of Reagan and Margaret Thatcher."}, {"timestamp": [1513.7, 1521.4], "text": " One of the key drivers was anger and backlash at labor unions in Britain in the 70s. So"}, {"timestamp": [1521.4, 1527.1], "text": " labor unions kept doing things like shutting down power, shutting down rail, and the voters"}, {"timestamp": [1527.1, 1528.84], "text": " got really fed up with that."}, {"timestamp": [1528.84, 1531.12], "text": " Because the labor unions are like,"}, {"timestamp": [1531.12, 1533.92], "text": " we want more power, we want more money."}, {"timestamp": [1533.92, 1536.08], "text": " And so they would go on strike and shut the country down."}, {"timestamp": [1536.08, 1539.04], "text": " And everyone's like, yeah, we're kind of done with that."}, {"timestamp": [1539.04, 1543.72], "text": " And so basically, uber-powered labor unions"}, {"timestamp": [1543.72, 1546.52], "text": " were a big driver of neoliberalism."}, {"timestamp": [1546.52, 1554.74], "text": " There were also other things such as hyperinflation and shocks to the economy, namely in the fuel"}, {"timestamp": [1554.74, 1556.96], "text": " crisis of the 70s."}, {"timestamp": [1556.96, 1560.96], "text": " So I'm not saying that it was all down to labor unions, but that was a big, big driver"}, {"timestamp": [1560.96, 1563.4], "text": " of it, particularly in Britain."}, {"timestamp": [1563.4, 1566.04], "text": " I haven't done too much research on backlash"}, {"timestamp": [1566.04, 1568.42], "text": " against labor unions in America at the time,"}, {"timestamp": [1568.42, 1571.64], "text": " but certainly a lot of the allegories"}, {"timestamp": [1571.64, 1574.68], "text": " or lessons come from Britain."}, {"timestamp": [1574.68, 1576.96], "text": " Okay, so that's how we got here."}, {"timestamp": [1576.96, 1578.2], "text": " That was part one of the video."}, {"timestamp": [1578.2, 1581.46], "text": " Here's part two, the reclamation."}, {"timestamp": [1581.46, 1584.16], "text": " This quagmire was centuries in the making,"}, {"timestamp": [1584.16, 1588.3], "text": " technically thousands of years in the making, but really the the industrialization and"}, {"timestamp": [1588.92, 1594.04], "text": " Renaissance was when everything really started to pivot around 500 years ago. So"}, {"timestamp": [1594.72, 1601.34], "text": " let's talk about some of the things that have happened and are happening in order to"}, {"timestamp": [1602.72, 1606.44], "text": " change this, to reclaim our lives. So I've got on the docket here,"}, {"timestamp": [1606.44, 1609.68], "text": " we've got quiet quitting and the great resignation."}, {"timestamp": [1609.68, 1611.44], "text": " We've got institutional codependence."}, {"timestamp": [1611.44, 1614.64], "text": " This is a term that I kind of just came up with, I guess."}, {"timestamp": [1615.64, 1617.96], "text": " We've got cottage core and slow living."}, {"timestamp": [1617.96, 1621.6], "text": " We've got remote and flex work, Eastern wisdom,"}, {"timestamp": [1621.6, 1624.74], "text": " and then finally the coming AI revolution."}, {"timestamp": [1624.74, 1627.44], "text": " So let's unpack these one by one."}, {"timestamp": [1627.44, 1629.28], "text": " First, quiet quitting."}, {"timestamp": [1630.32, 1632.56], "text": " The eight hour workday is a holdover"}, {"timestamp": [1632.56, 1634.36], "text": " from industrial mindsets."}, {"timestamp": [1634.36, 1636.96], "text": " So you might have heard of like OSHA"}, {"timestamp": [1636.96, 1640.8], "text": " and other works around the turn of the century,"}, {"timestamp": [1642.2, 1643.2], "text": " around 1900."}, {"timestamp": [1644.08, 1646.0], "text": " So basically, you know, one of the first things"}, {"timestamp": [1646.0, 1647.36], "text": " that labor unions did was say,"}, {"timestamp": [1647.36, 1649.96], "text": " hey, let's limit the workday to something more reasonable"}, {"timestamp": [1649.96, 1652.84], "text": " so that people aren't working themselves to death."}, {"timestamp": [1652.84, 1656.6], "text": " But that was when labor was still mostly manual labor."}, {"timestamp": [1657.46, 1659.58], "text": " Knowledge work, intellectual labor,"}, {"timestamp": [1659.58, 1661.62], "text": " most people can only do two to four hours"}, {"timestamp": [1661.62, 1663.1], "text": " of knowledge work per day."}, {"timestamp": [1663.1, 1663.94], "text": " Why?"}, {"timestamp": [1663.94, 1664.96], "text": " Because our brains get tired,"}, {"timestamp": [1664.96, 1665.0], "text": " and we did not evolve to be hours of knowledge work per day. Why? Because our brains get tired."}, {"timestamp": [1665.0, 1669.0], "text": " And we did not evolve to be thinking all day, every day."}, {"timestamp": [1669.0, 1672.0], "text": " Some of us, like those of us that are neuro-spicy,"}, {"timestamp": [1672.0, 1676.0], "text": " we can. It's still not good for us, but we can."}, {"timestamp": [1676.0, 1680.0], "text": " But the idea that we all have to sit in an office for eight hours"}, {"timestamp": [1680.0, 1684.0], "text": " is actually somewhat arbitrary and not really connected with productivity."}, {"timestamp": [1684.0, 1686.36], "text": " And in point of fact, there are people experimenting"}, {"timestamp": [1686.36, 1688.32], "text": " with much shorter work days."}, {"timestamp": [1688.32, 1689.32], "text": " There's a, what's it called?"}, {"timestamp": [1689.32, 1691.56], "text": " Like high intensity coding or whatever,"}, {"timestamp": [1691.56, 1694.92], "text": " where programmers only work for two or three hours a day,"}, {"timestamp": [1694.92, 1696.6], "text": " and then the rest of the time,"}, {"timestamp": [1696.6, 1698.56], "text": " they're free to do whatever they want."}, {"timestamp": [1698.56, 1701.64], "text": " Personally, I have taken this to heart,"}, {"timestamp": [1701.64, 1706.04], "text": " and I only do a couple hours of intellectual work per day."}, {"timestamp": [1706.04, 1707.04], "text": " Some days I do more."}, {"timestamp": [1707.04, 1711.44], "text": " I still can do up to 10 hours a day if I've got a lot that I want to achieve, but I can't"}, {"timestamp": [1711.44, 1713.56], "text": " do that every day."}, {"timestamp": [1713.56, 1718.34], "text": " So that's kind of the background of quiet quitting is this is why it's like it's kind"}, {"timestamp": [1718.34, 1719.34], "text": " of a BS thing."}, {"timestamp": [1719.34, 1722.88], "text": " Like if you're a knowledge worker, you shouldn't be in an office for eight hours."}, {"timestamp": [1722.88, 1727.38], "text": " Just period, end of story."}, {"timestamp": [1727.38, 1729.82], "text": " Office jobs can be difficult to quantify."}, {"timestamp": [1729.82, 1735.06], "text": " So because of that, because it can be difficult to measure productivity, a lot of people can"}, {"timestamp": [1735.06, 1741.44], "text": " just spend time playing hooky, underproducing, hiding, or otherwise pretending to work."}, {"timestamp": [1741.44, 1750.52], "text": " So as a technologist myself, when I still went into the office, I spent a lot of time pretending to work. So as a technologist myself when I still went into the office I spent a lot of time pretending to work and this was also due to open office"}, {"timestamp": [1750.52, 1755.08], "text": " plans which have been scientifically proven to decrease work because people"}, {"timestamp": [1755.08, 1758.9], "text": " are more anxious about other people looking over their shoulder and so we"}, {"timestamp": [1758.9, 1762.98], "text": " spend more time pretending to work than actually working. So the eight-hour work"}, {"timestamp": [1762.98, 1767.4], "text": " day and open offices are like the worst things to happen"}, {"timestamp": [1767.4, 1770.52], "text": " to intellectual labor and productivity."}, {"timestamp": [1770.52, 1773.18], "text": " Productivity is also much more highly abstracted."}, {"timestamp": [1774.8, 1777.56], "text": " In many companies, it's not obvious how you make money."}, {"timestamp": [1779.72, 1784.72], "text": " If you work for a tech company or a services company,"}, {"timestamp": [1784.92, 1786.96], "text": " it's like, okay, well, how do you actually make money?"}, {"timestamp": [1786.96, 1789.32], "text": " So like years ago, I worked for an insurance company."}, {"timestamp": [1789.32, 1790.16], "text": " How do we make money?"}, {"timestamp": [1790.16, 1793.56], "text": " We get insurance premiums, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1793.56, 1795.32], "text": " And it's like, okay, so someone's,"}, {"timestamp": [1795.32, 1797.48], "text": " that's like the sales guys, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1797.48, 1799.16], "text": " They go sign up a new company."}, {"timestamp": [1799.16, 1801.16], "text": " It was Workman's Comp Underwriting"}, {"timestamp": [1801.16, 1803.2], "text": " is the company that I work for."}, {"timestamp": [1803.2, 1805.4], "text": " And it's like, okay, so they go talk"}, {"timestamp": [1805.4, 1807.6], "text": " to a construction company, they sign up,"}, {"timestamp": [1807.6, 1811.92], "text": " and they give us a monthly or weekly or quarterly check."}, {"timestamp": [1811.92, 1814.04], "text": " Right, and it's like, okay, so the money's coming in,"}, {"timestamp": [1814.04, 1818.7], "text": " so then like whatever every employee was doing,"}, {"timestamp": [1818.7, 1820.48], "text": " other than like bringing that money in,"}, {"timestamp": [1820.48, 1824.44], "text": " it wasn't really obvious like how you were being productive."}, {"timestamp": [1824.44, 1830.04], "text": " And this is true for many departments whether it's IT, HR, legal, these are business units"}, {"timestamp": [1830.04, 1834.56], "text": " that don't contribute to the bottom line, they're just necessary evils to run the business"}, {"timestamp": [1834.56, 1837.68], "text": " and so they are cost centers rather than producers."}, {"timestamp": [1837.68, 1843.96], "text": " And so because we have these highly abstracted jobs, it's like okay, well we measure time"}, {"timestamp": [1843.96, 1847.0], "text": " because that's the best we've got, but it's like,"}, {"timestamp": [1847.0, 1848.92], "text": " how else do you measure productivity?"}, {"timestamp": [1848.92, 1850.88], "text": " You know, if you're a developer, you might, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [1850.88, 1852.88], "text": " measure based on lines of code produced,"}, {"timestamp": [1852.88, 1856.38], "text": " number of bugs closed, whatever else, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [1856.38, 1859.08], "text": " but identifying KPI, key performance indicators"}, {"timestamp": [1859.08, 1862.4], "text": " for productivity, is really hard, and it's not reliable."}, {"timestamp": [1863.76, 1867.36], "text": " And that is because we're no longer manually producing widgets, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1867.36, 1871.28], "text": " For some places that are still more traditional factories,"}, {"timestamp": [1871.28, 1876.48], "text": " like if you're making jeans or sweaters or, you know, chairs or whatever,"}, {"timestamp": [1876.48, 1881.2], "text": " those are easier to measure because you've got one person or a small team of people"}, {"timestamp": [1881.2, 1884.88], "text": " producing one unit of product that can be sold."}, {"timestamp": [1884.88, 1885.76], "text": " But services"}, {"timestamp": [1885.76, 1892.32], "text": " much harder to quantify. So because of neoliberalism there is and competition"}, {"timestamp": [1892.32, 1896.52], "text": " there is a constant downward pressure. This is why budgets always shrink"}, {"timestamp": [1896.52, 1900.96], "text": " because the the prevailing wisdom is what you do is you tighten the budget"}, {"timestamp": [1900.96, 1906.92], "text": " every year which forces people to be more creative and to find new efficiencies."}, {"timestamp": [1906.92, 1909.16], "text": " So the idea is, well, if everyone else"}, {"timestamp": [1909.16, 1912.08], "text": " is depressing their budgets and laying people off,"}, {"timestamp": [1912.08, 1914.72], "text": " then everyone is gonna be forced to be creative,"}, {"timestamp": [1914.72, 1917.6], "text": " to think harder, to work smarter, not harder,"}, {"timestamp": [1917.6, 1918.8], "text": " so on and so forth."}, {"timestamp": [1918.8, 1920.48], "text": " And again, time is money,"}, {"timestamp": [1920.48, 1923.22], "text": " because now, even if you're a salaried employee,"}, {"timestamp": [1923.22, 1925.82], "text": " it's still expected that you're gonna contribute"}, {"timestamp": [1925.82, 1928.44], "text": " much of your intellectual capital,"}, {"timestamp": [1928.44, 1930.64], "text": " excuse me, much of your intellectual labor"}, {"timestamp": [1930.64, 1931.78], "text": " to the bottom line."}, {"timestamp": [1933.16, 1935.78], "text": " And again, it's all driven by competition."}, {"timestamp": [1935.78, 1940.36], "text": " So quiet quitting is, as I said,"}, {"timestamp": [1940.36, 1943.38], "text": " here's kind of the key behaviors,"}, {"timestamp": [1943.38, 1946.52], "text": " which is stepping out of work, underproducing,"}, {"timestamp": [1946.52, 1948.2], "text": " hiding, pretending to work."}, {"timestamp": [1948.2, 1949.76], "text": " This doesn't work in the long run"}, {"timestamp": [1949.76, 1951.48], "text": " because you're still playing the game."}, {"timestamp": [1951.48, 1953.28], "text": " We haven't changed the rules yet."}, {"timestamp": [1953.28, 1956.24], "text": " All you're doing is you're kind of like,"}, {"timestamp": [1956.24, 1960.58], "text": " eh, I'm just gonna screw around."}, {"timestamp": [1964.64, 1970.0], "text": " So we have to talk more about, okay, how do we change the rules, which we'll get to that in a minute."}, {"timestamp": [1970.0, 1981.0], "text": " Then there's the great resignation. So the great resignation happened as a backlash of workers to the, well, what about the economy?"}, {"timestamp": [1981.0, 1985.84], "text": " Like, oh no, the economy, like, who cares if the economy, right? Like, oh no, the economy, like who cares if the economy craters? And also when"}, {"timestamp": [1985.84, 1990.08], "text": " people say that, they're usually looking at the stock market, which there is a huge disconnect"}, {"timestamp": [1990.08, 1995.92], "text": " between the stock market and everybody else. Something like 90% of people are not really"}, {"timestamp": [1995.92, 1999.52], "text": " impacted by the stock market. It might be a little bit less than that. It might be like 70 to 80%,"}, {"timestamp": [2000.72, 2007.5], "text": " but the point is, is that the economy is not the stock market and also there are still quartiles and quintiles."}, {"timestamp": [2007.5, 2016.5], "text": " And people in the bottom 50% they don't really care except for how the economy impacts their grocery bills and their wages."}, {"timestamp": [2016.5, 2022.0], "text": " Now, because of neoliberalism and because of Calvinism and everything else that I've talked about,"}, {"timestamp": [2022.0, 2026.04], "text": " our entire purpose for being has become GDP."}, {"timestamp": [2027.32, 2032.38], "text": " Technically, neoliberals say that individual liberty, quote-unquote, allows us to decide purpose for ourselves."}, {"timestamp": [2032.38, 2038.02], "text": " But when every job, every bill, every economic report all focuses on GDP,"}, {"timestamp": [2038.16, 2043.68], "text": " we get the message over and over again that our entire purpose is to be an economic cog."}, {"timestamp": [2044.36, 2046.64], "text": " And that's no way to live."}, {"timestamp": [2046.64, 2050.32], "text": " So, the great resignation is, there's two parts of it."}, {"timestamp": [2050.32, 2053.12], "text": " One is a lot of people quit to change jobs,"}, {"timestamp": [2053.12, 2055.44], "text": " but in another case, a lot of people are exiting"}, {"timestamp": [2055.44, 2058.18], "text": " the labor market entirely, like myself,"}, {"timestamp": [2059.14, 2061.92], "text": " and that's because it's like, this isn't fair"}, {"timestamp": [2061.92, 2064.88], "text": " and this isn't sustainable and I don't care anymore."}, {"timestamp": [2064.88, 2065.44], "text": " And so this creates a huge brain drain on corporations. like, this isn't fair and this isn't sustainable and I don't care anymore."}, {"timestamp": [2065.44, 2068.52], "text": " And so this creates a huge brain drain on corporations."}, {"timestamp": [2068.52, 2072.16], "text": " And what I mean by that is someone as smart as me decides, you know what, I'm going to"}, {"timestamp": [2072.16, 2077.96], "text": " capture more of my own value instead of working for someone else and allowing them to capture"}, {"timestamp": [2077.96, 2078.96], "text": " my value."}, {"timestamp": [2078.96, 2084.76], "text": " I'm going to, I'm a smart guy, so I'm going to do that for myself."}, {"timestamp": [2084.76, 2087.48], "text": " Another big component of that is dignity and respect."}, {"timestamp": [2088.52, 2090.74], "text": " And what I mean by that is,"}, {"timestamp": [2092.72, 2096.28], "text": " for an employer to treat you with dignity and respect"}, {"timestamp": [2096.28, 2099.32], "text": " means that they treat you like a person."}, {"timestamp": [2099.32, 2102.76], "text": " They don't just expect you to just produce, produce, produce."}, {"timestamp": [2102.76, 2105.52], "text": " They give you time and space and that sort of thing."}, {"timestamp": [2111.04, 2117.36], "text": " And to be fair, many employers do that really well, but the corporation as a whole might not. And I'll talk about that more in just a second. So now I also mentioned that there, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [2117.36, 2121.52], "text": " so some people are exiting the labor force altogether. Some people are just changing jobs."}, {"timestamp": [2121.52, 2125.76], "text": " There was a recent report, I think it was on Forbes or Fortune,"}, {"timestamp": [2133.92, 2136.08], "text": " where it said like 80% of Gen Z who quit regretted it. So what's going on there? Is it, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [2141.36, 2148.4], "text": " grass isn't always greener? Maybe. There could also be some backlash and resentment of employers, like, oh, you're a ship jumper. Okay, well, I'm going to punish you for doing that."}, {"timestamp": [2148.4, 2153.12], "text": " Now, I want to also say the great resignation doesn't necessarily work for everyone."}, {"timestamp": [2153.12, 2157.24], "text": " One, not everyone can YOLO out of their workplace."}, {"timestamp": [2157.24, 2159.88], "text": " And two, some people regret it anyways."}, {"timestamp": [2159.88, 2167.34], "text": " So just like quiet quitting is not sustainable, neither is the great resignation, but these"}, {"timestamp": [2167.34, 2173.1], "text": " trends indicate that there is a lot of energy and a lot of anger and a lot of desire to"}, {"timestamp": [2173.1, 2177.18], "text": " change things and fix them."}, {"timestamp": [2177.18, 2179.64], "text": " So there's one last problem that I want to talk about."}, {"timestamp": [2179.64, 2184.44], "text": " And it's a term that I coined, at least as far as I know I'm the one who came up with"}, {"timestamp": [2184.44, 2187.08], "text": " it. I originally called it academic codependence,"}, {"timestamp": [2187.08, 2188.28], "text": " but then I realized it actually"}, {"timestamp": [2188.28, 2190.8], "text": " has much broader implications."}, {"timestamp": [2190.8, 2192.94], "text": " And so I called it, I broadened the scope"}, {"timestamp": [2192.94, 2195.26], "text": " and called it institutional codependence."}, {"timestamp": [2195.26, 2199.0], "text": " And so let me just read the definition of codependency."}, {"timestamp": [2199.88, 2202.16], "text": " Codependency is a term, and keep in mind,"}, {"timestamp": [2202.16, 2204.36], "text": " this is not necessarily between individuals,"}, {"timestamp": [2204.36, 2205.9], "text": " this is between you and your workplace,"}, {"timestamp": [2205.9, 2209.78], "text": " or you and your government, or you and your university."}, {"timestamp": [2209.78, 2211.68], "text": " Codependency is a term used to describe"}, {"timestamp": [2211.68, 2214.12], "text": " a type of relationship in which one person supports"}, {"timestamp": [2214.12, 2216.52], "text": " or enables another person's addiction,"}, {"timestamp": [2216.52, 2219.2], "text": " poor mental health, or irresponsibility."}, {"timestamp": [2219.2, 2221.14], "text": " It is characterized by a lack of boundaries,"}, {"timestamp": [2221.14, 2223.2], "text": " a tendency to sacrifice one's own needs"}, {"timestamp": [2223.2, 2224.8], "text": " for the sake of the relationship,"}, {"timestamp": [2224.8, 2225.04], "text": " and an excessive focus on the for the sake of the relationship,"}, {"timestamp": [2225.04, 2228.86], "text": " and an excessive focus on the needs and problems of the other person."}, {"timestamp": [2228.86, 2233.02], "text": " Codependency can lead to feelings of low self-esteem, guilt, and an inability to assert one's own"}, {"timestamp": [2233.02, 2237.22], "text": " needs, and it is often seen as a destructive pattern in relationships."}, {"timestamp": [2237.22, 2241.38], "text": " Now think about this in terms of your job."}, {"timestamp": [2241.38, 2244.98], "text": " You are often expected to sacrifice your needs for the company."}, {"timestamp": [2244.98, 2245.72], "text": " I've literally been"}, {"timestamp": [2245.72, 2252.64], "text": " told that. I was when I was working at a tech giant. I had a boss unironically say, well,"}, {"timestamp": [2252.64, 2257.68], "text": " the company's got to come first. And, you know, I reported them to HR and they didn't"}, {"timestamp": [2257.68, 2267.0], "text": " do anything because, well, HR doesn't care. And then think about this also in terms of your relationship with academia."}, {"timestamp": [2267.0, 2271.0], "text": " So I have a lot of friends who are PhDs and researchers and teachers,"}, {"timestamp": [2271.0, 2281.0], "text": " and the amount of abuse that academics are expected to absorb for low pay is really strange."}, {"timestamp": [2281.0, 2289.0], "text": " It's like academia is one of the most abusive and exploitative environments."}, {"timestamp": [2289.0, 2290.92], "text": " And I don't, well, no, I do know why."}, {"timestamp": [2290.92, 2292.24], "text": " It just, it still baffles me."}, {"timestamp": [2292.24, 2296.04], "text": " So one of the reasons is because there's very few seats at the table."}, {"timestamp": [2296.04, 2301.52], "text": " So whenever there's scarcity, there's, you end up with greater competition and it becomes"}, {"timestamp": [2301.52, 2303.86], "text": " very, very vicious."}, {"timestamp": [2303.86, 2305.06], "text": " So there's vicious competition,"}, {"timestamp": [2305.06, 2308.84], "text": " there's few seats at the table, and also low pay."}, {"timestamp": [2308.84, 2311.24], "text": " So it's like, okay, this is not a good environment."}, {"timestamp": [2311.24, 2313.28], "text": " And this is why a lot of people leave academia"}, {"timestamp": [2313.28, 2316.24], "text": " for private industry because their salary goes up"}, {"timestamp": [2316.24, 2319.38], "text": " by 2x, 3x, or 4x, and they're treated better."}, {"timestamp": [2320.44, 2322.32], "text": " I've known people that they discovered this"}, {"timestamp": [2322.32, 2325.06], "text": " when they finally graduated or left academia"}, {"timestamp": [2325.06, 2330.82], "text": " They're like I'm treated like a celebrity in private industry and it's like yes, because you're actually being paid what you're worth"}, {"timestamp": [2331.62, 2333.46], "text": " and finally"}, {"timestamp": [2333.46, 2338.48], "text": " We also are we have this excessive focus on GDP, right?"}, {"timestamp": [2338.48, 2340.9], "text": " This is why I call it institutional codependency is"}, {"timestamp": [2341.48, 2345.74], "text": " We are told that our boundaries and our needs don't matter, the economy and"}, {"timestamp": [2345.74, 2349.86], "text": " economic productivity matters more than we do."}, {"timestamp": [2349.86, 2357.7], "text": " And so now, because of this, the government, corporations, and universities have a monopoly"}, {"timestamp": [2357.7, 2363.58], "text": " on your value as an economic unit, or by defining you as an economic unit, rather than as a"}, {"timestamp": [2363.58, 2364.76], "text": " person."}, {"timestamp": [2364.76, 2366.72], "text": " And you must participate in this system"}, {"timestamp": [2366.72, 2367.84], "text": " whether or not you like it,"}, {"timestamp": [2367.84, 2369.08], "text": " whether or not you agree with it,"}, {"timestamp": [2369.08, 2370.7], "text": " because otherwise you starve."}, {"timestamp": [2370.7, 2373.02], "text": " And technically you can vote with your feet,"}, {"timestamp": [2373.02, 2374.62], "text": " but that can be really difficult."}, {"timestamp": [2374.62, 2377.88], "text": " Not everyone has the privilege to change jobs,"}, {"timestamp": [2377.88, 2380.64], "text": " and even if you do, a lot of companies,"}, {"timestamp": [2380.64, 2382.48], "text": " one is more like the other,"}, {"timestamp": [2382.48, 2385.0], "text": " and also, we have the same federal government,"}, {"timestamp": [2385.0, 2387.0], "text": " unless you expatriate to another nation,"}, {"timestamp": [2387.0, 2389.0], "text": " but even then, you're going to be subservient"}, {"timestamp": [2389.0, 2392.0], "text": " to some nation somewhere, and they've all got problems."}, {"timestamp": [2392.0, 2396.0], "text": " And this is one of the fantasies of a lot of libertarians,"}, {"timestamp": [2396.0, 2399.0], "text": " is the idea of, just get all of this off of me."}, {"timestamp": [2399.0, 2403.0], "text": " I don't want to have any institutional codependence with anyone."}, {"timestamp": [2403.0, 2406.32], "text": " Problem is, there's nowhere that you can go that someone is not going to have some"}, {"timestamp": [2406.32, 2409.36], "text": " power or influence over you."}, {"timestamp": [2409.36, 2414.0], "text": " So sorry, libertarians, it is a fantasy."}, {"timestamp": [2414.0, 2416.56], "text": " And so that is institutional codependence, and so I wanted to underpin this."}, {"timestamp": [2416.56, 2420.28], "text": " This is another barrier to reframing everything."}, {"timestamp": [2420.28, 2423.0], "text": " So I've painted a really bleak picture."}, {"timestamp": [2423.0, 2430.76], "text": " Let's start looking at what we can do. So first is this idea of cottagecore and slow living. These are super popular"}, {"timestamp": [2430.76, 2435.68], "text": " lately. There's all kinds of youtubers all over the planet that champion"}, {"timestamp": [2435.68, 2441.88], "text": " cottagecore, slow living, and other kinds of idyllic things. So what is this? If you"}, {"timestamp": [2441.88, 2453.76], "text": " haven't heard of cottagecore or slow living or any of the other slow trends, this is an idealization and romanticization of idyllic, rustic, and bucolic lifestyles."}, {"timestamp": [2453.76, 2460.56], "text": " Basically, it is an escape fantasy to get away from the daily grind of factories,"}, {"timestamp": [2460.56, 2467.72], "text": " urbanization, and corporate life. It is a desire to return to simpler ways and easier times as outlined at the beginning"}, {"timestamp": [2467.72, 2472.0], "text": " of this video because in the past, most of us did live simpler lives."}, {"timestamp": [2472.0, 2475.88], "text": " And there are plenty of places in the world where they do still live these simpler lives."}, {"timestamp": [2475.88, 2479.44], "text": " Like I said, rural places in Europe and probably other places."}, {"timestamp": [2479.44, 2481.28], "text": " I haven't visited them so I don't know."}, {"timestamp": [2481.28, 2484.6], "text": " But there are plenty of rural places that do have a slower pace of life."}, {"timestamp": [2484.6, 2489.6], "text": " So this escape fantasy is mostly for those of us from urban environments, which considering"}, {"timestamp": [2489.6, 2494.68], "text": " that more than half of the global population lives in cities now, a majority of the people"}, {"timestamp": [2494.68, 2496.8], "text": " are urban."}, {"timestamp": [2496.8, 2500.44], "text": " This is generally, so when I say this, what I mean is cottagecore and slow living is a"}, {"timestamp": [2500.44, 2505.0], "text": " western response to the problem of burnout."}, {"timestamp": [2505.04, 2507.1], "text": " So burnout, I mentioned this at the beginning of the video,"}, {"timestamp": [2507.1, 2509.64], "text": " burnout is the state of just total collapse"}, {"timestamp": [2509.64, 2511.32], "text": " because you can't do it anymore."}, {"timestamp": [2512.64, 2514.88], "text": " One of the problems with cottagecore and slow living"}, {"timestamp": [2514.88, 2516.88], "text": " is that it can be marketed."}, {"timestamp": [2516.88, 2518.56], "text": " You can just wrap it up and productize it,"}, {"timestamp": [2518.56, 2521.28], "text": " kind of like how feminism has become a marketing ploy."}, {"timestamp": [2521.28, 2524.24], "text": " Girl bosses and the other girl and not like other girls"}, {"timestamp": [2524.24, 2531.56], "text": " and hashtag whatever, that is where feminism has been just repackaged and sold. Kind of like"}, {"timestamp": [2531.56, 2538.92], "text": " the Che Guevara shirts, right? The irony there. So anyways, one of the problems"}, {"timestamp": [2538.92, 2542.28], "text": " with cottagecore and slow living is that a lot of people are confused by the"}, {"timestamp": [2542.28, 2546.12], "text": " aesthetic of it and they see it more"}, {"timestamp": [2546.12, 2550.6], "text": " as a performative signal of something that I can just demonstrate on social media."}, {"timestamp": [2550.6, 2555.32], "text": " Cottagecore and Slow Living is not something that you demonstrate via TikTok or YouTube"}, {"timestamp": [2555.32, 2559.04], "text": " or Instagram or whatever people are using these days."}, {"timestamp": [2559.04, 2563.82], "text": " It is a way of living and it is a mentality."}, {"timestamp": [2563.82, 2566.76], "text": " It is good that some people popularize it and demonstrate it,"}, {"timestamp": [2566.76, 2569.12], "text": " but a lot of people still kind of get confused"}, {"timestamp": [2569.12, 2571.48], "text": " and they apply their workaholic,"}, {"timestamp": [2571.48, 2573.28], "text": " their busy-holic mentality to it,"}, {"timestamp": [2573.28, 2576.68], "text": " saying, ah, now I need to virtue signal with cottagecore."}, {"timestamp": [2576.68, 2578.48], "text": " Just like people virtue signal with everything,"}, {"timestamp": [2578.48, 2581.34], "text": " social justice, feminism, masculinity."}, {"timestamp": [2581.34, 2585.0], "text": " We, because we are so obsessed with competition,"}, {"timestamp": [2585.38, 2588.48], "text": " we tend to productize and commercialize everything"}, {"timestamp": [2588.48, 2590.74], "text": " and then we want a virtue signal about it."}, {"timestamp": [2590.74, 2595.36], "text": " So, let's take a deeper look at cottagecore and slow living"}, {"timestamp": [2595.36, 2598.48], "text": " and what it actually, if you really embrace it,"}, {"timestamp": [2598.48, 2599.7], "text": " what does it mean?"}, {"timestamp": [2599.7, 2602.84], "text": " So the first thing is that cottagecore and slow living"}, {"timestamp": [2602.84, 2607.16], "text": " is an anti-consumption and anti-consumerist mentality."}, {"timestamp": [2607.16, 2609.8], "text": " So when I say mentality, it's not just a matter"}, {"timestamp": [2609.8, 2612.84], "text": " of making choices of, oh, I'm gonna consume less,"}, {"timestamp": [2612.84, 2616.06], "text": " it's changing the way that you emotionally orient"}, {"timestamp": [2616.06, 2619.68], "text": " towards consumerism, towards consumption,"}, {"timestamp": [2619.68, 2622.48], "text": " where it's, what's another way of saying this?"}, {"timestamp": [2622.48, 2625.0], "text": " Where you update your values."}, {"timestamp": [2625.0, 2627.08], "text": " Where you say, I act, like for me,"}, {"timestamp": [2627.08, 2629.28], "text": " I can talk about it from a personal perspective,"}, {"timestamp": [2629.28, 2634.28], "text": " I actively dislike any messages that tell me to consume."}, {"timestamp": [2635.12, 2637.16], "text": " That tell me you need more."}, {"timestamp": [2637.16, 2640.32], "text": " It is a rejection of that idea"}, {"timestamp": [2640.32, 2643.28], "text": " that I need to spend money in order to be a person."}, {"timestamp": [2643.28, 2646.84], "text": " That I need to engage in conspicuous consumption"}, {"timestamp": [2646.84, 2651.84], "text": " to demonstrate my wealth, to virtue signal my productivity."}, {"timestamp": [2651.9, 2654.14], "text": " So that's what I mean by mentality."}, {"timestamp": [2654.14, 2658.58], "text": " It is a change of moral values and emotional responses"}, {"timestamp": [2658.58, 2659.64], "text": " to these messages."}, {"timestamp": [2659.64, 2662.32], "text": " And first, in order to become anti-consumption,"}, {"timestamp": [2662.32, 2664.96], "text": " you have to be aware of consumption messages."}, {"timestamp": [2664.96, 2665.0], "text": " To be anti-consumerist, you have to be aware of consumption messages."}, {"timestamp": [2665.0, 2669.3], "text": " To be anti-consumerist, you have to be aware of consumerism."}, {"timestamp": [2669.3, 2674.96], "text": " It is also a re-evaluation of productivity, purpose, and meaning."}, {"timestamp": [2674.96, 2679.76], "text": " So Sorrel Amore, or Sorrel, I don't know how she pronounces her name, she just came up"}, {"timestamp": [2679.76, 2687.2], "text": " with a video a week or two ago talking about re-evaluating purpose, or sorry, productivity."}, {"timestamp": [2687.2, 2691.28], "text": " In her video, she talks about redefining productivity."}, {"timestamp": [2691.28, 2695.24], "text": " This is still kind of a Western approach of it, like, oh, well, the underlying assumption"}, {"timestamp": [2695.24, 2697.28], "text": " is that you always have to be productive."}, {"timestamp": [2697.28, 2700.44], "text": " What I'm saying is, first, no, you don't."}, {"timestamp": [2700.44, 2705.5], "text": " But she's going in the right direction, and that is by redefining productivity into things"}, {"timestamp": [2705.5, 2710.2], "text": " that are more healthy, positive, and aligned with your needs as a human."}, {"timestamp": [2710.2, 2714.42], "text": " So for instance, she talks about like, sex is actually productive to her because it is"}, {"timestamp": [2714.42, 2716.7], "text": " good for relationships."}, {"timestamp": [2716.7, 2719.34], "text": " Exercising and eating well is productive because it's good for your body."}, {"timestamp": [2719.34, 2725.44], "text": " Play, singing, dancing is all productive because it is good for your mental health."}, {"timestamp": [2725.44, 2732.32], "text": " So I like it, but it is still just kind of grafting on workaholism and just changing the signals."}, {"timestamp": [2734.0, 2739.6], "text": " But what, so what I mean, what the underlying thing is, we have to reevaluate what is our purpose in"}, {"timestamp": [2739.6, 2745.52], "text": " life. And we have several centuries of cultural baggage telling us that our purpose is to be productive."}, {"timestamp": [2745.52, 2749.92], "text": " Remember, Calvinism goes back to the 16th century, the 1500s."}, {"timestamp": [2749.92, 2756.32], "text": " And we also are in the midst of a crisis of meaning, what I call the nihilistic crisis,"}, {"timestamp": [2756.32, 2760.88], "text": " which basically says nothing has any meaning, so we have no purpose, so therefore what do we do?"}, {"timestamp": [2760.88, 2763.6], "text": " And the capitalists come in and say, your purpose is to work."}, {"timestamp": [2763.6, 2765.56], "text": " Cottage corn slow living is a very deliberate rejection of hustle culture. Therefore, what do we do? And the capitalists come in and say, your purpose is to work."}, {"timestamp": [2768.36, 2769.58], "text": " Cottage corn slow living is a very deliberate rejection of hustle culture."}, {"timestamp": [2770.68, 2771.52], "text": " It's basically saying,"}, {"timestamp": [2771.52, 2773.24], "text": " actually, no, I'm gonna do the opposite."}, {"timestamp": [2773.24, 2775.76], "text": " I'm gonna do as little as possible."}, {"timestamp": [2775.76, 2779.84], "text": " And finally, cottage corn slow living"}, {"timestamp": [2779.84, 2782.6], "text": " is another way of looking at it"}, {"timestamp": [2782.6, 2786.08], "text": " is it is a rejection of neoliberalism. It says"}, {"timestamp": [2786.08, 2789.64], "text": " actually I'm not going to consume, actually I'm not going to participate in"}, {"timestamp": [2789.64, 2793.2], "text": " the market, actually I'm going to do a whole bunch of other stuff. It takes a"}, {"timestamp": [2793.2, 2798.4], "text": " lot of time to unpack. Trust me I've been working on it for a few years now."}, {"timestamp": [2798.4, 2807.28], "text": " But basically the underpinning assertion is my time and my life are my own. That is the core thrust of cottage"}, {"timestamp": [2807.28, 2814.76], "text": " core and slow living. Okay so if you as I said it can take a long time to really"}, {"timestamp": [2814.76, 2818.88], "text": " engage with the idea of slow living and also not everyone can make these choices"}, {"timestamp": [2818.88, 2823.88], "text": " as I mentioned not everyone can become a YouTube producer or content creator or"}, {"timestamp": [2823.88, 2827.04], "text": " an entrepreneur or whatever else."}, {"timestamp": [2827.04, 2829.72], "text": " Many people do have to keep working,"}, {"timestamp": [2829.72, 2832.24], "text": " which means that we have to change our relationship"}, {"timestamp": [2834.32, 2835.5], "text": " with employers."}, {"timestamp": [2835.5, 2838.2], "text": " We have to change the nature of the view"}, {"timestamp": [2838.2, 2841.04], "text": " between employee and employer."}, {"timestamp": [2841.04, 2846.8], "text": " So there's the concepts of remote work and flex work, which fortunately, recent global"}, {"timestamp": [2846.8, 2851.02], "text": " events really kind of proved that remote work and flex work are a thing."}, {"timestamp": [2851.02, 2855.94], "text": " Many people have remote only jobs, global teams, asynchronous work."}, {"timestamp": [2855.94, 2859.2], "text": " This is all what I mean by remote and flex work."}, {"timestamp": [2859.2, 2864.68], "text": " Now there's another aspect of this, which many employers actually do embrace, at least"}, {"timestamp": [2864.68, 2865.68], "text": " managers and"}, {"timestamp": [2865.68, 2870.56], "text": " mid-level managers do, I'm not so sure about the rest of organizations and C-level, but"}, {"timestamp": [2870.56, 2874.04], "text": " it's basically a people-first mentality."}, {"timestamp": [2874.04, 2877.52], "text": " My last boss that I had, he said this when I first started."}, {"timestamp": [2877.52, 2882.64], "text": " He's like, I don't care when or how the work gets done, just as long as it gets done."}, {"timestamp": [2882.64, 2887.58], "text": " I had a tremendous amount of privilege to work whenever, wherever, however best suited"}, {"timestamp": [2887.58, 2888.58], "text": " me."}, {"timestamp": [2888.58, 2892.28], "text": " Sometimes I'd wake up and work at six in the morning, I'd be done by nine in the morning,"}, {"timestamp": [2892.28, 2896.2], "text": " and then I'd go for a hike, and everyone was super happy with me."}, {"timestamp": [2896.2, 2897.2], "text": " Why?"}, {"timestamp": [2897.2, 2902.04], "text": " Because I'd get up and do my work, I'd make sure that stuff advanced, and then I'd send"}, {"timestamp": [2902.04, 2907.4], "text": " a couple emails, attend whatever meetings I needed to, and then I was done for the day."}, {"timestamp": [2907.4, 2912.08], "text": " And like I said, you can only do two to three hours of intellectual labor per day anyways,"}, {"timestamp": [2912.08, 2914.68], "text": " so I just did it all in one chunk first thing in the morning."}, {"timestamp": [2914.68, 2916.8], "text": " Everyone was perfectly happy with me."}, {"timestamp": [2916.8, 2927.46], "text": " Because my workplace gave me that flexibility, that was much better for me. Now, I do wanna say that HR seems like"}, {"timestamp": [2927.46, 2928.78], "text": " they haven't caught up,"}, {"timestamp": [2928.78, 2932.44], "text": " and I don't mean in just one company, I mean broadly."}, {"timestamp": [2932.44, 2934.94], "text": " HR doesn't seem to really comprehend this,"}, {"timestamp": [2934.94, 2938.82], "text": " and I don't think many C-level people do either,"}, {"timestamp": [2938.82, 2942.86], "text": " especially when you see a whole bunch of C-level executives"}, {"timestamp": [2942.86, 2945.66], "text": " say like, oh, we need to get people back in the office, right?"}, {"timestamp": [2945.66, 2947.4], "text": " Because they fundamentally don't understand"}, {"timestamp": [2947.4, 2948.46], "text": " how work happens."}, {"timestamp": [2948.46, 2950.8], "text": " Oh, and I did have an insight into this."}, {"timestamp": [2950.8, 2953.84], "text": " I figured out why a lot of executive leadership"}, {"timestamp": [2953.84, 2956.46], "text": " is really focused on getting back into the office,"}, {"timestamp": [2956.46, 2958.32], "text": " and that is because most of their work"}, {"timestamp": [2958.32, 2960.4], "text": " is done face-to-face in meetings."}, {"timestamp": [2960.4, 2963.36], "text": " To them, productivity can only happen"}, {"timestamp": [2963.36, 2965.0], "text": " by having face-to-face meetings,"}, {"timestamp": [2965.0, 2968.52], "text": " and I'm saying this as a freshly minted CEO myself."}, {"timestamp": [2968.52, 2970.4], "text": " Yes, face-to-face meetings,"}, {"timestamp": [2970.4, 2972.24], "text": " infinitely more productive than remote work."}, {"timestamp": [2972.24, 2975.32], "text": " However, as a former individual contributor,"}, {"timestamp": [2975.32, 2978.16], "text": " I will say that remote work, as an individual contributor,"}, {"timestamp": [2978.16, 2979.84], "text": " is infinitely more productive."}, {"timestamp": [2979.84, 2981.96], "text": " So there's a huge disconnect,"}, {"timestamp": [2981.96, 2984.64], "text": " because CEOs, they're like, I'm in meetings all day,"}, {"timestamp": [2984.64, 2986.88], "text": " I'm working face-to- face, I'm in the office,"}, {"timestamp": [2986.88, 2988.76], "text": " and they feel productive and they think everyone"}, {"timestamp": [2988.76, 2991.02], "text": " should do exactly what they've done,"}, {"timestamp": [2991.02, 2992.96], "text": " but what many CEOs fail to realize,"}, {"timestamp": [2992.96, 2995.66], "text": " and other C-level people, is that actually,"}, {"timestamp": [2995.66, 2997.02], "text": " it's been so long since they've been"}, {"timestamp": [2997.02, 2999.16], "text": " an individual contributor, and many of them"}, {"timestamp": [2999.16, 3001.22], "text": " were individual contributors before remote work"}, {"timestamp": [3001.22, 3003.86], "text": " was even possible, and so they don't realize"}, {"timestamp": [3003.86, 3005.72], "text": " how productive you can be"}, {"timestamp": [3005.72, 3008.68], "text": " as an individual contributor working from a coffee shop"}, {"timestamp": [3008.68, 3010.7], "text": " halfway around the world."}, {"timestamp": [3010.7, 3012.54], "text": " That is one of the major disconnects."}, {"timestamp": [3012.54, 3017.26], "text": " So, as CEOs like myself are up and coming,"}, {"timestamp": [3017.26, 3018.88], "text": " we are gonna say, you know what,"}, {"timestamp": [3018.88, 3021.66], "text": " and I'm not saying that I'm the first crop of this,"}, {"timestamp": [3021.66, 3024.08], "text": " there's already plenty that get this,"}, {"timestamp": [3024.08, 3025.12], "text": " but it's going to become more"}, {"timestamp": [3025.12, 3027.48], "text": " and more of a status quo."}, {"timestamp": [3027.48, 3031.08], "text": " So I wanted to read a quotation to you."}, {"timestamp": [3031.08, 3034.92], "text": " It's kind of a paraphrase, it's a shortened version, but people will always do the least"}, {"timestamp": [3034.92, 3037.28], "text": " that is required of them to get by."}, {"timestamp": [3037.28, 3039.16], "text": " And the person who said this was my grandfather."}, {"timestamp": [3039.16, 3042.88], "text": " He told me this about 20 years ago."}, {"timestamp": [3042.88, 3047.64], "text": " And he was a vice president at Coca-Cola during Coca-Cola's heyday."}, {"timestamp": [3047.64, 3053.88], "text": " So he was like maximum over business, you know, like way high up there."}, {"timestamp": [3053.88, 3056.8], "text": " I actually got to ride in a limo when I was a kid because of that."}, {"timestamp": [3056.8, 3062.28], "text": " So you know, yes, I do have some privilege in my background."}, {"timestamp": [3062.28, 3067.28], "text": " But I wanted to have this quotation because what that exemplifies was the"}, {"timestamp": [3067.28, 3072.64], "text": " antagonistic or extractive mentality between employee and employer,"}, {"timestamp": [3072.64, 3077.0], "text": " which is based on that Industrial Revolution model of your time is your"}, {"timestamp": [3077.0, 3080.8], "text": " most valuable thing and I want as much of your time as you can give me. With"}, {"timestamp": [3080.8, 3086.84], "text": " knowledge work that no longer applies. So what I prefer is the learning organization model"}, {"timestamp": [3086.84, 3090.52], "text": " as elucidated by the fifth discipline by,"}, {"timestamp": [3090.52, 3092.28], "text": " I can't remember the author right now."}, {"timestamp": [3092.28, 3094.4], "text": " Anyways, you look up the fifth discipline."}, {"timestamp": [3094.4, 3098.4], "text": " So a learning organization is a concept"}, {"timestamp": [3098.4, 3100.32], "text": " that has a lot of principles,"}, {"timestamp": [3100.32, 3102.08], "text": " but some of the primary principles,"}, {"timestamp": [3102.08, 3104.6], "text": " certainly those that struck me the most,"}, {"timestamp": [3104.6, 3106.68], "text": " is that you have to adopt the belief"}, {"timestamp": [3106.68, 3108.8], "text": " that all humans are super intelligent"}, {"timestamp": [3108.8, 3112.54], "text": " and should be treated as such, not as just labor cogs."}, {"timestamp": [3113.68, 3116.52], "text": " And I adopted this mentality"}, {"timestamp": [3116.52, 3118.16], "text": " and I started treating my coworkers"}, {"timestamp": [3118.16, 3119.6], "text": " and the people that reported to me,"}, {"timestamp": [3119.6, 3122.3], "text": " and I still do this as an entrepreneur,"}, {"timestamp": [3122.3, 3126.44], "text": " I treat people as if they're all geniuses. I say, you are the"}, {"timestamp": [3126.44, 3132.24], "text": " smartest organism on the planet, act like it. I don't make it like demanding. I'm like,"}, {"timestamp": [3132.24, 3137.0], "text": " I give you the space to figure it out because I trust that you can. And invariably, people"}, {"timestamp": [3137.0, 3147.44], "text": " will rise above. Why? Because humans actively enjoy learning. People actively enjoy overcoming and healthy challenges."}, {"timestamp": [3147.44, 3154.4], "text": " This is a fundamental truth of humanity that neoliberalism fails to account for. And if you"}, {"timestamp": [3154.4, 3161.52], "text": " don't believe me, look at gaming. There is an entire industry built around creating artificial"}, {"timestamp": [3161.52, 3166.56], "text": " challenges. People love challenges. I actually figured this out"}, {"timestamp": [3166.56, 3172.56], "text": " by talking to educators. Specifically, there was a middle school teacher who taught computer"}, {"timestamp": [3172.56, 3179.2], "text": " science programming and gaming, and he pointed out children, adults, everyone, they do the"}, {"timestamp": [3179.2, 3186.74], "text": " exact behaviors that you want them to in school and work. They will get organized, they'll collaborate, they'll learn on their own, they'll strategize."}, {"timestamp": [3186.74, 3191.66], "text": " They will struggle and fight and work to overcome problems."}, {"timestamp": [3191.66, 3193.76], "text": " And in the case of video games,"}, {"timestamp": [3193.76, 3196.2], "text": " they're all artificial problems."}, {"timestamp": [3196.2, 3198.8], "text": " And it's like, okay, how do we get that level"}, {"timestamp": [3198.8, 3201.44], "text": " of commitment and involvement into schools"}, {"timestamp": [3201.44, 3202.6], "text": " and into workplaces?"}, {"timestamp": [3202.6, 3204.52], "text": " And the way that you do that is you adopt"}, {"timestamp": [3204.52, 3206.36], "text": " a learning organization mentality"}, {"timestamp": [3206.36, 3211.12], "text": " and you realize that humans actually really enjoy challenges."}, {"timestamp": [3211.12, 3215.52], "text": " We get so much self-esteem from overcoming challenges."}, {"timestamp": [3215.52, 3220.52], "text": " And so what I do as a leader, as a supervisor before,"}, {"timestamp": [3220.8, 3223.6], "text": " and now a CEO, is I give people challenges"}, {"timestamp": [3223.6, 3226.64], "text": " and I say, do your best. I don't expect productivity,"}, {"timestamp": [3226.64, 3232.88], "text": " I expect you to learn. And that works so well. And I'll talk a little bit more about some"}, {"timestamp": [3232.88, 3240.44], "text": " of the Eastern wisdom that this came from actually right now. So there's certainly some"}, {"timestamp": [3240.44, 3245.92], "text": " sources in the West that come from this. The Fifth Discipline, absolutely one of the best books"}, {"timestamp": [3245.92, 3247.28], "text": " that you should read."}, {"timestamp": [3247.28, 3249.4], "text": " I recommend that you read, if you read nothing else,"}, {"timestamp": [3249.4, 3251.88], "text": " just read about the learning organization idea."}, {"timestamp": [3251.88, 3256.62], "text": " Now, that being said, if you're familiar with my work,"}, {"timestamp": [3256.62, 3259.68], "text": " you know that I am a big student of Western, Eastern,"}, {"timestamp": [3259.68, 3263.82], "text": " and now also Southern philosophy and spirituality."}, {"timestamp": [3263.82, 3269.24], "text": " So I wanna add a couple ideas about how to reclaim your life with the help of Eastern"}, {"timestamp": [3269.24, 3270.8], "text": " wisdom."}, {"timestamp": [3270.8, 3274.76], "text": " So first is the concept of Wabi-Sabi."}, {"timestamp": [3274.76, 3279.9], "text": " Wabi-Sabi is a Japanese worldview, it's not just a spirituality or philosophy, it is an"}, {"timestamp": [3279.9, 3287.06], "text": " entire worldview, excuse me, that intertwines the natural way of things and the passage of time and"}, {"timestamp": [3287.06, 3293.28], "text": " focuses on an easeful attitude towards existence."}, {"timestamp": [3293.28, 3297.52], "text": " So remember at the beginning of the video where I talked about for the majority of human"}, {"timestamp": [3297.52, 3303.64], "text": " history we have been, a big part of making our living is just allowing nature to run"}, {"timestamp": [3303.64, 3310.24], "text": " its course? That is one of the central components of Wabi Sabi. I'm still reading about it so I'll probably"}, {"timestamp": [3310.24, 3315.36], "text": " talking about Wabi Sabi for a while but it's like oh I realize like I've kind of already got a model"}, {"timestamp": [3315.36, 3327.0], "text": " for this. So read up on Wabi Sabi. It is a super valuable way of engaging with not just life or work, but it's a way of looking at existence,"}, {"timestamp": [3327.0, 3330.1], "text": " a way of looking at the purpose of life."}, {"timestamp": [3330.1, 3336.58], "text": " Another concept is Ichigo-ichi, which is the Japanese concept of appreciating moments for"}, {"timestamp": [3336.58, 3342.68], "text": " what they are and understanding that all moments are ephemeral, and then taking the joy and"}, {"timestamp": [3342.68, 3345.34], "text": " pleasure and peace from those moments and just"}, {"timestamp": [3345.34, 3349.58], "text": " appreciating it for what it is because again nothing is permanent and this is"}, {"timestamp": [3349.58, 3354.1], "text": " why like the cherry blossom festival in Japan is super popular because as a"}, {"timestamp": [3354.1, 3358.36], "text": " culture they understand this is a beautiful moment and it is rare and it"}, {"timestamp": [3358.36, 3368.8], "text": " should be appreciated and treasured as such this is also why Japanese architecture is very much in tune with nature. Taoism."}, {"timestamp": [3369.6, 3376.88], "text": " Taoism is a philosophy of alignment with quote the way or the Tao. Speaking of, you actually know"}, {"timestamp": [3376.88, 3389.08], "text": " what this is because you've probably heard of Star Wars and the Force. George Lucas based the force on Taoism. So the primary way of implementing Taoism is,"}, {"timestamp": [3389.08, 3391.2], "text": " it is underpinned by wu wei,"}, {"timestamp": [3391.2, 3393.44], "text": " which is the art of not doing."}, {"timestamp": [3393.44, 3397.58], "text": " And this is primarily a philosophy of leadership."}, {"timestamp": [3398.78, 3400.92], "text": " And basically as a philosophy of leadership,"}, {"timestamp": [3400.92, 3403.48], "text": " it says, let things run their course."}, {"timestamp": [3403.48, 3410.86], "text": " It's a lot more nuanced than that but basically you create the environment that allows for productivity,"}, {"timestamp": [3410.86, 3414.7], "text": " you create the environment that allows for learning and for problems to be"}, {"timestamp": [3414.7, 3419.26], "text": " solved and for work to get done and then you take your hands off. And the reason"}, {"timestamp": [3419.26, 3425.34], "text": " that Taoism resonated with me is because I also had that model of the learning organization."}, {"timestamp": [3425.34, 3432.18], "text": " This is why, for me, teaching is one of the primary core business competencies as a leader."}, {"timestamp": [3432.18, 3437.04], "text": " If I want things done a certain way or if I want productivity to happen, I make sure"}, {"timestamp": [3437.04, 3444.26], "text": " that I teach people how to do it, and then because they thrive on challenge and growth,"}, {"timestamp": [3444.26, 3445.16], "text": " they do it, they take it from"}, {"timestamp": [3445.16, 3451.24], "text": " there. I just let nature run its course. Finally, Zen. So Zen is something that I"}, {"timestamp": [3451.24, 3454.94], "text": " studied many years ago. It kind of fell by the wayside but it's still very much"}, {"timestamp": [3454.94, 3459.66], "text": " incorporated into the way that I think about things. So if you look up a"}, {"timestamp": [3459.66, 3464.32], "text": " definition of Zen, they talk a lot about meditation. Meditation is just one act"}, {"timestamp": [3464.32, 3465.68], "text": " but really what Zen is about is it's a lot about meditation. Meditation is just one act, but really what"}, {"timestamp": [3465.68, 3472.08], "text": " Zen is about is it's a philosophy of insight to discern and distill the actual truth of things"}, {"timestamp": [3472.08, 3478.4], "text": " by seeking simplicity and minimalism and letting go of as much as possible. And so by critically"}, {"timestamp": [3478.4, 3483.44], "text": " evaluating, re-evaluating, questioning, and scrutinizing your beliefs, that is the purpose"}, {"timestamp": [3483.44, 3489.72], "text": " of meditation, is it's an internal scrutinization. You can let go of baggage, beliefs and"}, {"timestamp": [3489.72, 3495.08], "text": " assumptions that aren't helpful. That is the primary benefit of Zen. So you"}, {"timestamp": [3495.08, 3499.6], "text": " include this Eastern wisdom, you apply it to the way that you approach work. If"}, {"timestamp": [3499.6, 3504.44], "text": " you're a manager or leader, you apply it to the way that you lead. And for"}, {"timestamp": [3504.44, 3505.6], "text": " everyone, you apply it to the way that you lead. And if for everyone, you apply it to"}, {"timestamp": [3505.6, 3513.52], "text": " the way that you live and orient towards yourself and your own purpose. And finally, the coming AI"}, {"timestamp": [3513.52, 3521.2], "text": " revolution. It comes down to two basic facts. One, humans are expensive to employ. And two,"}, {"timestamp": [3522.16, 3525.0], "text": " capitalism is about seeking efficiency."}, {"timestamp": [3525.0, 3527.68], "text": " Therefore, machines will eventually be cheaper"}, {"timestamp": [3527.68, 3530.66], "text": " and more productive for pretty much all jobs,"}, {"timestamp": [3530.66, 3533.82], "text": " and finally, that means jobs are going away."}, {"timestamp": [3533.82, 3534.66], "text": " It's that simple."}, {"timestamp": [3534.66, 3536.08], "text": " I made a whole video about it on my other channel"}, {"timestamp": [3536.08, 3538.44], "text": " called the AI Jobpocalypse."}, {"timestamp": [3538.44, 3540.22], "text": " Go check it out if you don't believe me."}, {"timestamp": [3540.22, 3542.76], "text": " I got data to back up these claims."}, {"timestamp": [3542.76, 3545.56], "text": " So what happens when we all lose our jobs?"}, {"timestamp": [3545.56, 3549.0], "text": " I am presently predicting, and this is not,"}, {"timestamp": [3549.0, 3551.8], "text": " this is just kind of an intuitive guess,"}, {"timestamp": [3551.8, 3553.4], "text": " I'm predicting that we will be facing"}, {"timestamp": [3553.4, 3556.6], "text": " about 70% unemployment by 2030."}, {"timestamp": [3556.6, 3557.76], "text": " Let me say that again."}, {"timestamp": [3557.76, 3562.76], "text": " We will have 70% unemployment in America by the year 2030."}, {"timestamp": [3563.78, 3565.68], "text": " It could be more, it could be less. I could be wrong"}, {"timestamp": [3565.76, 3567.88], "text": " It might take longer might never happen"}, {"timestamp": [3567.88, 3573.34], "text": " I don't know but based on the trends that I'm saying and what I see technology being capable of"}, {"timestamp": [3573.88, 3576.64], "text": " We will be forced to re-evaluate"}, {"timestamp": [3577.52, 3589.2], "text": " Why we exist and what do we want and why the reason is because for now, our identity has been staked on economic productivity."}, {"timestamp": [3589.2, 3592.2], "text": " We will have to ask questions like, what does fair mean?"}, {"timestamp": [3592.2, 3595.04], "text": " Let me say that again."}, {"timestamp": [3595.04, 3601.44], "text": " We will be forced to ask questions and ask, what does fair mean?"}, {"timestamp": [3601.44, 3607.0], "text": " We will have various principles and beliefs that we have held for a long time challenged."}, {"timestamp": [3607.0, 3609.0], "text": " Labor is holy."}, {"timestamp": [3609.0, 3613.0], "text": " What happens when machines do all the labor for us, or most of it?"}, {"timestamp": [3613.0, 3619.0], "text": " There's also a belief that I don't support, and I feel like I presented enough data to challenge this belief."}, {"timestamp": [3619.0, 3621.0], "text": " Technology always creates jobs."}, {"timestamp": [3621.0, 3626.96], "text": " I don't think so. Certainly not for the last 20 years. With this, one of the"}, {"timestamp": [3626.96, 3631.34], "text": " conclusions that you could come to is that redistribution of some sort will be"}, {"timestamp": [3631.34, 3634.82], "text": " necessary. And I don't mean Marxism. I don't mean collective ownership or"}, {"timestamp": [3634.82, 3640.98], "text": " socialism. What I mean though is that robot taxes is probably the way it'll be"}, {"timestamp": [3640.98, 3649.4], "text": " implemented. Robot taxes and then redistribution probably as some kind of basic income will probably be necessary and the"}, {"timestamp": [3649.4, 3655.84], "text": " reason is because hunger is the primary driver of revolution. Look at the French"}, {"timestamp": [3655.84, 3660.96], "text": " Revolution, let them eat cake. Look at the Arab Spring, a fruit vendor had their"}, {"timestamp": [3660.96, 3665.52], "text": " cart taken by the police and then the Arab world like collectively said"}, {"timestamp": [3665.52, 3669.52], "text": " enough is enough. Look at the lockdowns in China where people have been starved in their"}, {"timestamp": [3669.52, 3674.64], "text": " apartments for months. They said enough was enough. And also look at the grain dole in Rome."}, {"timestamp": [3674.64, 3682.08], "text": " Grain was redistributed in order to keep the masses from revolting. So you have hungry people,"}, {"timestamp": [3682.08, 3688.8], "text": " you come up with a solution. Generally you, Rome figured out you redistribute food."}, {"timestamp": [3688.92, 3690.76], "text": " French Revolution might not have happened"}, {"timestamp": [3690.76, 3692.88], "text": " if they figured out redistribution earlier,"}, {"timestamp": [3692.88, 3694.14], "text": " so on and so forth."}, {"timestamp": [3694.14, 3695.54], "text": " So that's what's coming."}, {"timestamp": [3695.54, 3697.68], "text": " And we've only got a few years left before"}, {"timestamp": [3697.68, 3699.56], "text": " some of this will be necessary."}, {"timestamp": [3699.56, 3701.56], "text": " And with that said, thank you for watching."}, {"timestamp": [3701.56, 3703.12], "text": " I hope you found this helpful."}, {"timestamp": [3699.79, 3704.67], "text": " said, thank you for watching. I hope you found this helpful."}]}