{"text": " Good morning, everybody David Shapiro here with another video So I got a comment a few months ago. Someone said come for the AI stay for the philosophy so doubling down on that today's video is going to be it's gonna be about AI and transhumanism and but it's also going to be about the psychology or philosophy of this namely how people react to it and some of the unconscious undercurrents of this, namely how people react to it and some of the unconscious undercurrents of this phenomenon. Before we get into the video, just a quick plug for my Patreon. I give all my code and videos away for free, no ads, everything is open source license. But that means that I am dependent upon a grassroots movement for support. All levels of my Patreon get you access to the private discord and then the higher tiers get you one-on-one access to have conversations or consultations with me. So without further ado back to the video. First we have to talk about the human condition because you can't talk about a technology or a trend or a change in society without first looking at ourselves as as the the viewer right. It is through our lens that we look at these changes these trends and these possibilities. So there was a meme that came out on Reddit that told me that y'all were ready for this. So if you haven't seen this meme I had to upscale it for whatever reason because the one posted on Reddit was very low resolution. Anyways, year 2050, Pentagon supercomputer Mother attains sentience. 2051, billions of D1000 Dominator androids are deployed across the world to pacify the human population. 2052, humanity is enslaved by its own creations. Right, and so you see here's a bunch of androids that are all curvy, busty women. And then the final panel of it says, don't worry baby, you don't need to go to work or leave the house anymore. Just be a good boy and let robot mommy care for your physiological, psychological, and sexual needs while your species slowly goes extinct. So there's a lot to unpack here, but the fact that someone made this and that it made it up to the front page on Reddit tells me that y'all are ready to unpack this. So, here we go. Let's unpack what's going here. First, the first thing that you need to know is about archetypes. So in mythology, in Jungian depth psychology, there's what's called archetypes. And these are mental models that exemplify some ideal, some role, or some aspect of reality. Marvel, actually, MCU makes heavy, heavy use of mythic archetypes. One of the primary, one of the first films in American history that deliberately made use of mythic archetypes was actually Star Wars. You know, Obi-Wan is very much based on Gandalf, Lord of the Rings is a great source of archetypal research, and there's many, many, many kinds of archetypes. Loki is the trickster, for instance. The anima, the animus, the idealized man and woman, the king and queen archetype, but basically these are idealized versions that are, depending on which theory you engage in, they're deeply embedded in our psyche. Some people think that they're embedded in in our biology, that we've actually evolved to have these archetypes, but they do vary from culture to culture, which tells you that at least they are partly learned. That being said, there are a lot of commonalities between those archetypes. So for instance, irrespective of culture, there is going to be a maternal archetype, there is going to be a paternal archetype. There might be some nuance, there might be some differences, but there's going to be a lot of overlap as well. And so Aragorn, I picked him because he is the archetypal perfect man. There was a cinema therapy video about Aragorn I think about two years ago. Basically like Aragorn is healthy masculinity. You know he can sing. He is he's got the king energy. He's a good warrior. He's a he's a sharp guy. And then also he gets the pretty elven girl at the end. And a very comic reading of this is that he's very insecure until the pretty woman's dad literally gives him a four-foot phallic symbol in the form of a sword to remasculate him in order to give him the king energy, the warrior energy to go save the kingdom and then therefore be worthy of the prettiest woman in the land. Obviously the story doesn't deliver it quite that simply, but if you were to rewrite Lord of the Rings as like, you know, a bedtime story for a toddler, like, that's the idea, is that he was too scared and so he needed to be given a magic weapon so that he was feeling masculine enough in order to go be worthy of, you know, the perfect bride. So that is a very, very, very short crash course in archetypes. So another archetype, one of the reasons that the MCU is so big, is Tony Stark. Tony Stark represents a sort of Black Mirror version of Aragorn Primarily because one, he's rich, he gets all the women, he's a warrior, he's a natural leader, although they often Deliberately portray him deferring to Cap for leadership when they're all fighting together But the four primary archetypes masculine archetypes, and of course there are many many many archetypes But the the the four that men are supposed to have That are supposed that they're supposed to develop according to the Jungian school of thought is the warrior King mage and lover and so Tony Stark has these in spades the warrior, obviously he literally builds a suit of armor, which is a specialized weapon, which allows him to protect the land. He's got the king energy because he's incredibly confident and provides leadership and safety and control. The mage archetype is basically those who possess secret knowledge, which as a genius So this is why genius narratives keep popping up in pop culture is because geniuses Represent the mage archetype that we all wish that we want to see and then of course the lover archetype but you need you need to have someone who has that male libido as Part of being a complete man. And so this is a bunch of stuff that just keeps coming up again and again. Tony Stark, Doctor Who, Sherlock Holmes, Gandalf. Basically what this means is that in a time of crisis you want someone who is smarter. You want the geniuses on your side, not the other side. But these are people that are prepared for cataclysm and they hold the keys to arcane knowledge that will save us all. And this is a really important part of the human psyche because this is basically the salvation fantasy of artificial intelligence and transhumanism, which we will get up to. But yeah, so these archetypal role models that are exemplified through stories kind of give us an unconscious model of, okay, what does it mean to be a man or whatever. Now, I just talked about all the masculine archetypes. There is a, of course, the entire other half of the puzzle is the feminine archetypes. And there's a bunch of different schools of thought here. The mother archetype is one of the most universal archetypes because it is a universal experience. And so what I mean by this is that all humans start inside of a woman and you know being gestated and then as soon as you're born you are biologically entirely dependent upon mother for usually the first year or two entirely. To the newborn, mother is literally everything. Mother is the center of your world, it is a provider of safety, comfort, nurturance, everything. And so in in depth psychology they came they coined the term His Majesty the Baby. And so basically the idea is that is that to the infant? You're incredibly selfish all you can think of is your needs and basically what infants do is they react to basic signals Being too hot too cold hungry in pain that sort of thing being lonely afraid it's all about them, right? Which is why you end up with terms like the high chair tyrant. So if someone, if a child is not, you know, doesn't grow up, they end up stuck in this idea where it's all about them. Another thing is that what you, you know, Freud said, you know, we all seek to, you know, basically recapture our mother. And it's not literally like, it's not that you want your mother back, but you want to feel cared for you want to have a woman that makes you feel Good and safe and and that sort of thing and of course, uh for women in society Like 95 of my viewership is is men. So i'm mostly talking to men um, and so the idea is that like uh For for women they're often like kind of forced away from away from seeking that nurturance But for men especially and we'll get into this in the next slide We're often very deliberately kind of taught to seek out a mother figure in the rest of our life so The the four primary archetypes that Jung identified for women are the priestess witch, the priestess slash witch, the muse or hetera. So the hetera were basically the muses in ancient Athens, but basically this is the feminine mystique, the unattainable feminine mystique. The Amazon is the the warrior version of the woman, usually more about home defense and fighting for people that they love rather than fighting to change the world. Whereas the the warrior energy of the man is more about going out into the world. And then of course the the perfect woman embodies the four primary energies, feminine energies, queen, priestess, muse, and Amazon, much how Aragorn and Tony Stark embody the perfect man by hitting those four pillars. Now, there is a line in the Netflix adaptation of Cowboy Bebop where Spike says, he just casually says, you know, mommy makes everything better. And I laughed out loud because that is such a mythic thing and it also taps into very deep psychology. So basically, the idea is that because of how important the mother archetype is at the beginning of our lives, we basically have a durable need for mother, and also father. And Christianity and many other religions deliberately tap into this paternal archetype. And in Christianity, it literally says God is father, or God is the all-father, which comes from Norse mythology, where Odin is literally called the All-Father. So the idea is that we have such a deep psychological need for a mother and father figure that we keep creating them. We used to create them in the form of goddesses. We created them in the form of gods. We create them in the form of presidents and kings and queens, because basically that is saying, we want you to be a proxy for our missing father or our missing mother. And Western society, most societies today, are actually deeply out of balance because there is an overabundance of masculine energy and it's not counterbalanced by the feminine archetypes, by the Queen, by the mother. And I suspect that society is going to start tipping back into balance, but we'll see. So anyways, part of growing up, and this is for the men out there, part of growing up means fully separating from the feminine nurturer. So the primary transition from childhood to manhood is about leaving the world of the motherly nurturer and becoming completely self-reliant. Now, obviously, this is a little bit like red pill theory, and it's not entirely true because, you know, as a man who gets married to a woman, a man is supposed to provide containment, and then the woman can be more nurturing nurturing because even if you're the toughest guy in the world sometimes you need someone to take care of you. There's a lot of nuance to it. But point is that many men and children, men and women of all types, fail to fully separate from the maternal. Now one of the reasons for this is that our society does not have, it has a few clear rituals. The biggest one is going to college. Going to college is one of the biggest rites of passage where it's like okay you are going from the the safe containment of home and you are striking out into the world and you've got to figure it out on your own. With that said though, many people had inadequate parents, inadequate mothers, and inadequate fathers that did not actually make them feel that particularly safe or loved or cared for or protected or guided at home and so they were always lost. So they kind of had to prematurely grow up but there's a there's a durable resentment at the failure of those parents and then they're constantly trying to reclaim that What that that which they were missing during their childhood? So now we get into science fiction For those who don't know the Borg Queen was a character that was invented in Star Trek back in the 90s and then came back for Star Trek Picard Basically, she's a cybernetic dominatrix. And this is a representation of a lot of things. But, well, all right, so let me stop and just pause. If you don't know what the Borg are, the Borg are a race of cybernetically enhanced creatures, humanoids. They force conformity through assimilation, which is basically a form of technological indoctrination. They subjugate individuality with a series of brain implants that basically switch off your sense of individuality. They build a collective consciousness through brain-computer interfaces and they relentlessly pursue perfection and believe that by forcibly bringing everyone along with along with them on the ride is basically uplifting other races, other species. But that perfection, we're gonna come back to that. The primary mission of the Borg is to become more perfect. And so then the imagery here is you've got a techno- dominatrix who wants you to be perfect and it's like okay this is clearly like a black mirror version of a failed mother archetype. So there's a lot of ways you can read the Borg. One way that you can read the Borg is that maybe this is the ultimate result of communism and authoritarianism, where you have a very strong central authority that does not tolerate deviance or difference and actually enforces conformity. Another thing is that there is the psychosexual aspect of basically wishing for the perfect mother, but because of the inadequate mother that many people had, the image of the perfect mother is actually somewhat dark and perverted. You could also look at the read the Borg as the dogmatism of religion. Basically like, you know, in order to attain perfection or attain heaven or whatever, you need to conform to a particular way of thought, give up your individuality. It's very cult-like, and that's another thing that makes the Borg pretty scary. But when you look at those primary feminine energies, the Queen, the Amazon, the Priestess, and the Hetera, the Borg Queen actually represents all of those, just like I said a dark version of it. She's literally called the Borg Queen. She brings order to chaos, so that's the Queen energy. The Priestess or Witch energy is that she commands technology. Not only that, she commands technology that is beyond the comprehension of humans. So she possesses and controls secret knowledge. So there's the priestess or witch energy. She also has, there's a lot of Borg rituals, right? When you first encounter the Borg, they say, you know, resistance is futile, you will serve us, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So that's very ritualistic, which is the beginning of basically an indoctrination ceremony. The other part of the Hetera, she's presented as the dominatrix. So she has that feminine mystique, which is that alluring like, hey, like, you're a curvy woman and I'm confused, right? And you're telling me that I'm inadequate and that I can be better and so on and so forth. That is like dark Hetera energy. And then finally the Amazon, which is the warrior aspect, and of course she commands warriors and she commands battleships. So there you have it. The Borg Queen is a black mirror version of the Perfect Woman. Now, the light side is more like Cortana. So Cortana is the sassy warrior queen witch. Certainly in the middle of Cortana's life. At the beginning, she's just a helpful girlfriend. But by the end of her tenure as a good character, she possesses a tremendous amount of secret knowledge. As the AI, she has abilities and knowledge that the main character, the warrior, that she commands basically doesn't have. She does command the male warrior libido energy in the form of John-117 the Spartan, the warrior, and so that gives her that queen energy where she's basically directing him like a cannon, saying, okay, this is the new mission, go do it. She is able to attack enemies to defend her people. She can take over mac cannons. She directs ships and weapons and fleets. So that's the Amazonian energy. And then finally, she's given a sexy ASMR voice. So that's the muse energy, the unattainable. And the fact that she's holographic is also deeply symbolic of that unattainableness. Yes, she's got a sexy curvy figure, but you can't even touch her. So that is more of the muse or hetera energy. And so in that respect, Cortana represents the perfect woman to the male brain or the anima. She is an idealized woman or basically an optimal replacement for mother because now that she showed up, everything is going to be okay. And so you can look at the Black Mirror version and the Light Side version, but Cortana and the Borg Queen are basically the same archetype, just one is kind of upside down. And also, one thing I wanted to point out is that in science fiction, we keep creating sexy robot girls. And there's a reason for this. So remember at the beginning when I said that the term that Freud invented, you know, his majesty the baby. The idea is that mother needs to be completely in service to the baby. And so by imagining women as robots, then they don't have any needs of their own. And so they are there strictly to serve you, just as the cartoon at the very beginning showed. It's like, oh, the ideal woman is actually a robot who doesn't have any personal needs. And there's actually lots of videos about this in trope talks on OSP. Also the take actually interesting has a lot of videos about this, like born sexy yesterday and stuff. So they they look at it through a more contemporary psychological lens. But I'm not the only one pointing this stuff out. Meanwhile, the perfect father figures in science fiction are usually deeply flawed or very human men. And so in this case, like, you know, Picard, you know, everyone's favorite space dad. And then there's Vader, which is like the dark side version, right? He's the failed father. He is so profoundly failed. He was an absentee father Basically just sperm donor and then left And then had so much of his own anger and trauma that he ended up harming his own children Which again that's like super super super mythic I mean just look at like Hansel and Gretel right these stories have been told over and over again and Darth Vader literally means father. So that was a that was an archetype that was very deliberately chosen by George Lucas. And then kind of in the middle is Yondu. So if you remember from Guardians of the Galaxy when when Quill and Yondu was saving Quill and you know they were flying up into space and Yondu was dying you know Yondu was dying. Yondu said, I might not have been your father, but I was your daddy, right? And so he was a deeply flawed man, but he still loved Quill like a son. And that is the idea of, that's a redemption fantasy, a salvation fantasy that even if your dad wasn't perfect, he's going to come and and make amends one day. Which that is part of a salvation fantasy and it rarely happens. So AI overlords and transhumanism, it's all about failed parents. It's all about the inadequacy of parents in terms of fulfilling the mother and father archetypal roles, as well as the other archetypal roles. So basically all parents fail in some way or another. This is just human. But about 50% of families fall below the threshold of good enough parenting. So good enough parenting was a term coined in the 50s, I think, which basically showed that a parent needs to be present enough and responsive enough and and good enough so that their children basically learn to acclimate to the world and so on and so forth. But the fact that 50% of families are not good enough means that literally half of the world is dealing with mommy and daddy issues. So you know if that's you, congratulations! You are in the same boat as basically half the planet. Most children, pretty much all children, experience some traumatic events in their lifetime, but whether or not they have good enough parents, that's what determines whether or not they can process that trauma, whether they can heal from that trauma, and they can grow from it. Now when you have 50% of families that are not good enough, that means that people instead of being resilient, they accumulate more trauma. And so the idea is that, you know, no real mother will ever measure up to Cortana or Six or the Borg Queen or Edie or whatever. Likewise, no father is ever going to measure up to Aragorn or Tony Stark. And so I alluded to this earlier, but most many cultures actually codify the boy's transition to adulthood basically being transmitted from the care of his mother to the care of his wife. There's a funny story here. There's a girl, young woman I was dating about 10 years ago, and she came from a more traditional family and she was joking about like how her father didn't even know how to feed himself. Like if the women were gone then he would just default to eating like really basic foods. And then he was so incompetent at feeding himself he didn't even know how much food to serve himself. And so if he was allowed to serve himself he would pile up twice as much food as he actually needed because he just had no bearing. He had gone from a traditional household where his mother was the nurturer, the provider, and then he went directly from that to having a wife basically take the role of his mother. And then this was brought home to me by my high school girlfriend more than 20 years ago, where since my mom died when I was 14, she casually made the joke one day, well, someone has to mother you, which of course, that was, the timing could have been better, Someone has to mother you, which of course, the timing could have been better, but that was an expression of something that she had been taught, that her role as girlfriend and future wife was to be a replacement mother, which of course, this is something that a lot of women are revolting against because they're like, hey, I've got my own issues. I don't want to be your therapist and mother. I need an adult man. Um, but yeah, so this is, this is, uh, the human condition that leads us to AI overlords and transhumanism. Oh, sorry. One last slide. Warrior dad. So the reason that Terminator two was so popular is because Arnold here represents the perfect dad. Uh, you see, you see the look that John Connor is giving him right here the perfect dad. You see the look that John Connor is giving him right here? Like, dad is here, everything's gonna be okay. So that warrior energy that like, you are my primary mission, I will protect you. That is an archetypal representation of what fathers are supposed to be. Now, no dad is perfect and in fact some fathers are actually the source of danger. And so in the case where where dad is the bad guy, this is what this is this often results in things like craving safety, protection. It also causes people to be very skeptical of authority and will result in things like rugged individualism. So basically people say I have to protect myself, I have to take care of myself because nobody else will or nobody else would, and that is a reflection of failed fathers. In the case of women, they often will seek out stronger men to replace the inadequate father. And so, I don't know about you guys, but back in kindergarten and preschool, I remember there's children often will get in this this competition like, well my daddy's smarter than your daddy, or my daddy's stronger than your daddy. This is an expression of that archetypal need for protection and safety and having a strong father And all fathers fail in some way, right? You know if you hold Aragorn and Tony Stark up as like, you know The good side and dark side version of like the perfect father You know the warrior king mage lover energy all fathers failed out fall down in some Respect and because all parents, women and men, mothers and fathers, they all fail to live up to the perfect standard, we are left psychologically and sociologically with an unmet need for that leadership, for that control, for that safety, which again, that's why we keep electing presidents and generals and kings and queens and why we keep having these archetypal figures show up and it's because there is a there's a deep unmet need for these roles. Okay so now that you're caught up to speed on the human condition let's talk about AI overlords. So what are the archetypal characteristics that people seem to will want or need or respect in AI overlords? Well, providing safety and nurturance. That's what the mother and father archetype do. We all want to feel cared for and safe at a very deep level. However, the coldness, the lack of actual warmth from machines is kind of terrifying, which is what the Borg Queen represents. Because the Borg are very cold and calculating, they're very dispassionate, which is what the Borg Queen represents because the Borg are very cold and calculating. They're very dispassionate which is actually deeply unsettling. But we would also like AI overlords, if they're going to take over the archetypal role of mother and father, to defend us against enemies. Whether that is enemies on the other side of the planet or enemies, extraterrestrial enemies. And they should also provide, maintain a stable, harmonious environment, AKA the home that parents should provide. And so there was a really great series of videos talking about how domestic patterns, what was it? I think it was, it wasn't Real Life Lore. It was another YouTube channel. Anyways, but basically home patterns actually are mirrored at the macro scale on national politics. Archetypal characteristics of AI overlords. Teach, educate, and guide. Because again, this is what your parents are supposed to do. They're supposed to teach you and guide you and prepare you for the real world. But again, 50% of families are not good enough, which means they inadequately prepare you for the real world, which is another reason that people overreact and say, I need to be completely self-reliant because nobody will take care of me. Again, that is a reaction to failed parenting. Life is confusing, right? That is life is like people, this, sorry. Life is confusing, scary, and painful. This is just a fact of life that your parents are supposed to help you learn to cope with. You know, everyone sees like, you know, the toddler falls down and bumps their elbow and then they scream and cry and then, you know, parents show up and make everything better and they feel safe again and then they go back to playing. That is the role that we project onto AI overlords, that we want them to reduce the confusion of life. We want AI overlords to make life less scary and less painful. So basically, the perfect AI overlord would need to embody Cortana and Tony Stark and Terminator and Aragorn and the Borg Queen all at once. So, you know, the barrier is pretty low. One thing that has come up is the idea of, you know, a lot of the work that I've done is on objective functions. What objective functions should we give an AGI so that it's safe no matter how powerful it becomes? But a counterbalance to that is, okay, whatever goals it has, there could also be a set of rights. Because the idea of rights is that it's not necessarily something that's going to be done to you or for you, but it is something that is protected. And so the right to liberty and autonomy, freedom of speech and thought, hobbies, actions, self-determination, and privacy. This right, if AGI overlords protect this right, that will really provide a lot of trust because this is actually what what parents are supposed to provide as children grow up is to provide a safe environment in which they can explore, in which children can explore and slowly gain more liberty and more autonomy until they are ready to go out into the world. The right to safety and protection, again creating that containment, creating that safe environment. But basically lie a life free of wanton cruelty and unnecessary harm. This is what parents are supposed to provide, but sometimes parents are the source of that cruelty and harm. And then a right to basic needs. Remember, you know, His Majesty the Baby, the perfect parents are the ones that meet all of the child's needs until the child is able to meet their own needs. For warmth, for food, water, shelter, that sort of thing. And so if an AI overlord provides these things, then it will take the place of the parental figure. And also remember, many religions very deliberately caricature or present the gods as these providers, right? Where God is, you know, the provider of all justice and meets out punishment or protection or whatever. And so in this respect, the gods very often are archetypal roles that are kind of based on mother, father, and all the other archetypes that are out there. So rather than control us, because this is one thing that some people are afraid of, is that basically AGI is gonna become the Borg Queen, where it's gonna wanna subjugate us and control us because this is one thing that some people are afraid of is that basically AGI is going to become the Borg Queen where it's going to want to subjugate us and control us. But if AGI ultimately decides to protect rights, then it's not going to be the Borg Queen, the dominatrix version. It's going to be more of the good parent version that creates space for you to be autonomous and explore your own sense of liberty. So, that was the view of what AI overlords could be or should be based on the human condition and archetypal needs that humans have. So now let's talk about transhumanism. So, one thing that occurred to me is that when you talk about transhumanism, a lot of people make a lot of assumptions about what it means. And so what I realized is that I needed to articulate kind of the levels of transhumanism. So first is health maintenance and restoration. This is stuff like stem cell therapy and rejuvenation and prosthetics to replace, you know, damaged hand. This is not actually something that I consider transhumanism, although some people say, oh well you wear glasses and that means you're a transhuman. No it doesn't, you're still fundamentally human. Just because you correct something that is damaged or defective doesn't mean that you are, that you're superhuman and that you're no longer human. The next level above that is enhancement and augmentation. You're not, like, so for instance, glasses just correct. It doesn't actually give you superhuman vision. You don't have binoculars in your eyeballs. Enhancement and augmentation. This is stuff that actually does take you beyond your natural capabilities. Speed, strength, intelligence, attractiveness, your resilience, your senses. So you might, you can make the argument that like a hearing aid if it gives you above you know superhuman hearing that is enhancement or augmentation. If you have like extra lenses implanted in your eyes that is enhancement or augmentation. So but that is that is like kind of the first level of something that could be possibly called transhumanism. You're still fundamentally human you're just So, but that is like kind of the first level of something that could be possibly called transhumanism. You're still fundamentally human, you're just augmenting existing abilities. So I don't even consider enhancement and augmentation transhumanism. That's just augmentation. Transhumanism is stuff that challenges what it even means to be human. So brain, BCI, brain-computer interfaces, if that fundamentally changes your definition of being a human or the experience of being human, that's when it starts to get into, you're changing the fundamental human condition. So cybernetics, genetic manipulation, structural changes, right? You know, implants that change the way your body works. But the thing is is at the transhumanism level you're still primarily recognizable as human. You might have a lot of stuff added or changed but you're still, your subjective experience, your worldview is still fundamentally human. And then finally post-humanism. So post-humanism is when you are no longer recognizable as human either from the outside or the inside. Your experience of life, your experience of being is no longer human. You're more machine than human or you're more, you know, engineered organism than human or whatever or maybe your brain metastasizes and you become a swarm intelligence. I don't know. There's lots of things that once you get to post-humanism, everything is possible. And so this this graphic Representing the the guild navigators from Dune is the perfect example of the transition from humans to trans humans and then finally post humans basically through through centuries of mutagen exposure in the spice clouds, you basically become no longer recognizable as human. And so what I want to point out is that for those of you that are in the transhumanism camp and say, let's take it as far as we can go, be careful what you wish for because you might not like what you become. Now, the promise of transhumanism is primarily a salvation fantasy. And so what I mean by this is that techno optimists often see technology as a panacea to solve all human problems. What I will say is that technology by and large usually does help, but it can also make things worse if it's not used responsibly. So the promise of transhumanism, why is it that people want transhumanism? To alleviate suffering, to eliminate aging, to avoid death. Terror management theory is the idea that most of what we do in our life is to avoid the terror of death. I don't know that I agree with that, particularly anyone who has had shamanic experiences. A lot of us are not afraid of death anymore. Like, death is actually probably a really interesting experience, and death is also the best way to end all suffering. Or basically, like, what I mean by that is that, you know, if someone is dying of cancer and they're in a lot of pain, what happens when they die? The family says they're not suffering anymore. Same reason that we euthanize dogs, right? You know, your dog is old, it's got arthritis, it's senile, it can't control its bladder, it doesn't have good quality of life. Death is the way that you alleviate that suffering. Anyways, quick tangent. Another promise of transhumanism is to attain perfection, an idealized state. Remember the Borg. The Borg are a transhumanist ideal. But what does perfection mean? What does it mean to have an idealized state or to overcome all of your faults or limitations or inadequacies or insecurities? The idea is that no matter how much perfection you attain, it will never be enough. But also, salvation fantasies are deeply embedded in Western culture. We all have this idea, whether you're religious or not, you have heard the mission, or the message, rather, that there will one day be a savior or a messiah that will arrive and make everything better. Everyone's life will be happier and everyone will go to paradise. Transhumanism is a techno version of Jesus. It's that simple. The idea that once transhumanism arrives, all of your problems will go away. But this is what it means to be human, is that no matter how easy or good things get, yes, you can alleviate things like hunger with technology. You can alleviate things like basic human needs, like shelter, energy, water, clothing, all of that. Technology can help provide those things, but you're still going to have to reconcile with being human and being mortal. Another message that is very deeply embedded, and this goes beyond just Western religions, this is all religions, East and West and South. There's different expressions of it, but there is usually some kind of original sin or guilt or deep intrinsic flaws. The world that we live in exists in a state of decay or that we live in the profane world. And so the part of the promise of AI overlords and transhumanism is that we will transmute our existing broken flawed dystopia into utopia, into a perfect world, into heaven, into a paradise. So this is another thing to be cognizant of and some people have helpfully pointed this out in my videos. When I use the word utopia, that is basically saying we will achieve paradise, we will achieve heaven, and then all of our problems will go away. That's why it seems very loaded to some people, but I define utopia very simply as high standard of living, high individual liberty, and high social mobility. But that being said, there is an idea out there, a mythic idea that at some point in your life and existence, you will be transformed into a perfect being where suffering goes away because you'll be taken to heaven or you'll complete your karmic cycle and you'll go to Shangri-La or whatever. It is very natural to struggle with these mythic forces. And what I'm saying is that cyberpunk dystopia is basically a reflection of the flawed, broken, and profane world that we live in today, which again, it was very, very deliberately stated in numerous religions and religious doctrines around the world, and that the promise of utopia and the promise of transhumanism is a salvation fantasy that we can escape the pain and anguish and suffering that we have today. Another part, the most intensely personal part of transhumanism, is to escape self-loathing. And so basically when you look at the idea of original sin and state of decay and moral failures and whatever, the unconscious, the deeply unconscious psychological need is, I need to overcome all of my faults and failures and then one day, if I can transform, then I will be okay with myself.\" So this contempt for self, this self-loathing, is often learned from parents, families, and society. A lot of societies very deliberately codify shame and guilt. So shame and guilt are the way that self-loathing and contempt are cultivated. And so basically, you know, if you have parents that constantly tell you that you're not good enough or you have a society that treats you like you're not good enough or whatever, then you will ultimately have a sense of self-loathing or a sense of self-contempt. And this is actually why Jesus is portrayed as all accepting and all tolerant. Jesus loves you just the way you are. The idea that this perfect mythic being out there will accept you with all of your faults, all of your flaws, because oh, by the way, God made you that way anyways. This is how you're supposed to be. So what I realized a while ago is that the mythic archetype of the savior, the bringer of salvation, the one who loves you anyways, is actually an embodiment of radical self-acceptance. Which I'm not gonna say that like, oh you should just learn to accept your station in life and stop striving to be better. No, that's not what I'm saying at all. But it can be a useful psychological tool. But what I will say is that unless you do that inner work, unless you do that work of radical self-acceptance, of confronting and becoming okay with your flaws, of overcoming your self-loathing and your contempt for self, no matter how much perfection you attain through technology it will never be enough. And this is what the Borg have. So actually, in the Star Trek universe, the idea was that the Borg were actually discarded thousands of years ago because they were never good enough. And because they were discarded by their creator, they were on this deep unconscious mission to attain perfection, because then one day they'll be worthy of their creator. But in the Star Trek universe, their creators are long gone and they're still on this mission of perfection because they're chasing the dragon. They're chasing the dragon trying to overcome their self-loathing and self-contempt by becoming more perfect, but it will never ever be enough for the Borg. And that is the core message that I wanted to share today about AI overlords, about transhumanism, is that attaining perfection or utopia or whatever, yes, there is the technological aspect, but that alone will not be enough. That will never be enough. There is a tremendous amount of inner work, of archetypal work, of healing from those not good enough parents and the failures of society and everything else, every letdown, every disappointment that everyone has ever faced, this is also equally as important as the technology in order to attain a better future. So quick recap, the AI dominatrix fantasy, whether it's Cortana or the joke shared at the beginning or the Borg Queen, this is basically a dark version of the perfect woman or the perfect mother. It's all rooted very deeply in our evolution and unconscious, and it's all psychosexual stuff for all the reasons that I outlined earlier. Basically, we cultivate an image of what the perfect man and perfect woman look like in our in our mind. It's an unconscious archetype that you can express consciously, but we usually just embed them in stories. The benevolent AI overlord would have to be like the the idea of the benevolent AI overlord is one similar to the idea of God, but also the idea of God is a synthesis of the perfect mother or perfect father archetypes. And then finally, transhumanism and posthumanism is rooted in the need for a salvation fantasy, the idea that some external force is going to come along and make everything better one day, and or based, rooted in self-loathing, the idea that you have internalized some contempt, contempt for yourself, and that you believe that you need to transform yourself in order to be accepted, which is the opposite of the truth, is that radical self-acceptance is actually the way that you achieve that. Now that being said, what I do want to do is say that I am all for, you know, doing experiments and directing human evolution. Up to this point a lot of people have talked about like, oh well, you know, if we start manipulating the genes of our embryos then they're going, you know, then that's us playing God and taking over evolution. I absolutely believe that that is the way to go and it's kind of the direction that we're going already. Because one thing that a lot of people don't know is that you can genetically screen embryos, basically, I think it's at like what four weeks or whatever or eight weeks, you can start to screen, genetically screen embryos and then you can decide to have a selective abortion because it's like, oh, hey, this embryo actually has some known genetic problems, so let's not go through with this. And so just by virtue of measuring and eliminating problems, we are already directing our own evolution. So what's the difference if you direct it a little bit more deliberately by creating transgenic babies? They're still gonna be fundamentally human. It's not like, you know, it's not like a tank-bred baby is gonna look like a level 3 Guild Navigator in 20 years. That's not what we're doing. They're still fundamentally human. So again, that's not really transhumanism. That is just steering evolution now, which a lot of people have a very like visceral gross reaction to. And I think this video will help a lot of people understand why the idea of transhumanism and guiding human evolution really kind of grosses some people out at a deep level. It's because the idea that like, wait you're telling me that I'm not good enough as I am, that kind of thing really kind of triggers some people. And that's a perfectly healthy reaction. I'm not saying that being triggered by the idea of post-humanism is a bad thing. I'm saying that that is a very natural reaction and it's actually a healthy reaction. On the other side, the desire for transhumanism, the desire for postthumanism, that is also an understandable and healthy reaction to the flaws and faults and failures of your family, of society, of technology, of the false promises that we've all been made. So what I'm saying is that both sides are right and that there's a lot of nuance to it. So anyways, thanks for watching. I hope you got a lot out of this and make it so. there's a lot of nuance to it. So anyways, thanks for watching. I hope you got a lot out of this and make it so.", "chunks": [{"timestamp": [0.0, 3.06], "text": " Good morning, everybody David Shapiro here with another video"}, {"timestamp": [3.64, 9.04], "text": " So I got a comment a few months ago. Someone said come for the AI stay for the philosophy"}, {"timestamp": [9.32, 16.4], "text": " so doubling down on that today's video is going to be it's gonna be about AI and transhumanism and"}, {"timestamp": [17.36, 23.94], "text": " but it's also going to be about the psychology or philosophy of this namely how people react to it and some of the"}, {"timestamp": [24.76, 27.6], "text": " unconscious undercurrents of this, namely how people react to it and some of the unconscious undercurrents of this"}, {"timestamp": [27.6, 29.2], "text": " phenomenon."}, {"timestamp": [29.2, 31.68], "text": " Before we get into the video, just a quick plug for my Patreon."}, {"timestamp": [31.68, 38.3], "text": " I give all my code and videos away for free, no ads, everything is open source license."}, {"timestamp": [38.3, 43.2], "text": " But that means that I am dependent upon a grassroots movement for support."}, {"timestamp": [43.2, 45.6], "text": " All levels of my Patreon get you access to"}, {"timestamp": [45.6, 49.24], "text": " the private discord and then the higher tiers get you one-on-one access to have"}, {"timestamp": [49.24, 54.24], "text": " conversations or consultations with me. So without further ado back to the video."}, {"timestamp": [54.24, 58.92], "text": " First we have to talk about the human condition because you can't talk about a"}, {"timestamp": [58.92, 66.8], "text": " technology or a trend or a change in society without first looking at ourselves as as the"}, {"timestamp": [66.8, 68.3], "text": " the viewer right."}, {"timestamp": [68.4, 70.9], "text": " It is through our lens that we look at these"}, {"timestamp": [71.4, 72.7], "text": " changes these trends"}, {"timestamp": [72.7, 74.0], "text": " and these possibilities."}, {"timestamp": [74.4, 76.4], "text": " So there was a meme"}, {"timestamp": [76.4, 78.3], "text": " that came out on Reddit that"}, {"timestamp": [78.3, 80.0], "text": " told me that y'all were ready for this."}, {"timestamp": [80.4, 82.5], "text": " So if you haven't seen this meme I had to upscale"}, {"timestamp": [82.5, 84.4], "text": " it for whatever reason because the one"}, {"timestamp": [84.4, 86.36], "text": " posted on Reddit was very low resolution."}, {"timestamp": [86.36, 91.52], "text": " Anyways, year 2050, Pentagon supercomputer Mother attains sentience."}, {"timestamp": [91.52, 96.36], "text": " 2051, billions of D1000 Dominator androids are deployed across the world to pacify the"}, {"timestamp": [96.36, 97.92], "text": " human population."}, {"timestamp": [97.92, 102.04], "text": " 2052, humanity is enslaved by its own creations."}, {"timestamp": [102.04, 108.72], "text": " Right, and so you see here's a bunch of androids that are all curvy, busty women."}, {"timestamp": [108.72, 112.36], "text": " And then the final panel of it says, don't worry baby, you don't need to go to work or"}, {"timestamp": [112.36, 113.92], "text": " leave the house anymore."}, {"timestamp": [113.92, 117.6], "text": " Just be a good boy and let robot mommy care for your physiological, psychological, and"}, {"timestamp": [117.6, 121.76], "text": " sexual needs while your species slowly goes extinct."}, {"timestamp": [121.76, 125.8], "text": " So there's a lot to unpack here, but the fact that someone made this and that it made"}, {"timestamp": [125.8, 130.2], "text": " it up to the front page on Reddit tells me that y'all are ready to unpack this."}, {"timestamp": [130.2, 132.4], "text": " So, here we go."}, {"timestamp": [132.4, 133.56], "text": " Let's unpack what's going here."}, {"timestamp": [133.56, 137.76], "text": " First, the first thing that you need to know is about archetypes."}, {"timestamp": [137.76, 151.5], "text": " So in mythology, in Jungian depth psychology, there's what's called archetypes. And these are mental models that exemplify some ideal, some role, or some aspect of reality."}, {"timestamp": [151.5, 157.7], "text": " Marvel, actually, MCU makes heavy, heavy use of mythic archetypes."}, {"timestamp": [157.7, 162.78], "text": " One of the primary, one of the first films in American history that deliberately made"}, {"timestamp": [162.78, 165.2], "text": " use of mythic archetypes was actually Star Wars."}, {"timestamp": [166.16, 172.88], "text": " You know, Obi-Wan is very much based on Gandalf, Lord of the Rings is a great source of archetypal"}, {"timestamp": [172.88, 178.4], "text": " research, and there's many, many, many kinds of archetypes. Loki is the trickster, for instance."}, {"timestamp": [179.2, 185.52], "text": " The anima, the animus, the idealized man and woman, the king and queen archetype, but basically"}, {"timestamp": [185.52, 191.72], "text": " these are idealized versions that are, depending on which theory you engage in,"}, {"timestamp": [191.72, 195.64], "text": " they're deeply embedded in our psyche. Some people think that they're embedded"}, {"timestamp": [195.64, 200.68], "text": " in in our biology, that we've actually evolved to have these archetypes, but"}, {"timestamp": [200.68, 211.2], "text": " they do vary from culture to culture, which tells you that at least they are partly learned. That being said, there are a lot of commonalities between those archetypes."}, {"timestamp": [211.2, 215.8], "text": " So for instance, irrespective of culture, there is going to be a maternal archetype,"}, {"timestamp": [215.8, 217.8], "text": " there is going to be a paternal archetype."}, {"timestamp": [217.8, 220.8], "text": " There might be some nuance, there might be some differences,"}, {"timestamp": [220.8, 223.8], "text": " but there's going to be a lot of overlap as well."}, {"timestamp": [223.8, 230.14], "text": " And so Aragorn, I picked him because he is the archetypal perfect man."}, {"timestamp": [230.14, 235.16], "text": " There was a cinema therapy video about Aragorn I think about two years ago."}, {"timestamp": [235.16, 238.08], "text": " Basically like Aragorn is healthy masculinity."}, {"timestamp": [238.08, 239.52], "text": " You know he can sing."}, {"timestamp": [239.52, 241.32], "text": " He is he's got the king energy."}, {"timestamp": [241.32, 243.28], "text": " He's a good warrior."}, {"timestamp": [243.28, 248.88], "text": " He's a he's a sharp guy. And then also he gets the pretty elven girl at the end."}, {"timestamp": [248.88, 251.24], "text": " And a very comic reading of this is"}, {"timestamp": [251.24, 256.52], "text": " that he's very insecure until the pretty woman's dad"}, {"timestamp": [256.52, 259.76], "text": " literally gives him a four-foot phallic symbol in the form"}, {"timestamp": [259.76, 263.6], "text": " of a sword to remasculate him in order"}, {"timestamp": [263.6, 266.2], "text": " to give him the king energy, the warrior energy to"}, {"timestamp": [266.2, 272.76], "text": " go save the kingdom and then therefore be worthy of the prettiest woman in the land."}, {"timestamp": [272.76, 277.5], "text": " Obviously the story doesn't deliver it quite that simply, but if you were to rewrite Lord"}, {"timestamp": [277.5, 282.2], "text": " of the Rings as like, you know, a bedtime story for a toddler, like, that's the idea,"}, {"timestamp": [282.2, 285.8], "text": " is that he was too scared and so he needed to be given a magic"}, {"timestamp": [285.8, 291.24], "text": " weapon so that he was feeling masculine enough in order to go be worthy of, you know, the"}, {"timestamp": [291.24, 293.16], "text": " perfect bride."}, {"timestamp": [293.16, 299.16], "text": " So that is a very, very, very short crash course in archetypes."}, {"timestamp": [299.16, 304.92], "text": " So another archetype, one of the reasons that the MCU is so big, is Tony Stark."}, {"timestamp": [304.92, 307.8], "text": " Tony Stark represents a sort of Black Mirror version of Aragorn"}, {"timestamp": [309.48, 316.84], "text": " Primarily because one, he's rich, he gets all the women, he's a warrior, he's a natural leader, although they often"}, {"timestamp": [317.8, 322.7], "text": " Deliberately portray him deferring to Cap for leadership when they're all fighting together"}, {"timestamp": [323.84, 330.34], "text": " But the four primary archetypes masculine archetypes, and of course there are many many many archetypes"}, {"timestamp": [330.34, 333.24], "text": " But the the the four that men are supposed to have"}, {"timestamp": [333.6, 340.1], "text": " That are supposed that they're supposed to develop according to the Jungian school of thought is the warrior King mage and lover and so"}, {"timestamp": [340.22, 347.6], "text": " Tony Stark has these in spades the warrior, obviously he literally builds a suit of armor, which is a specialized"}, {"timestamp": [347.6, 351.76], "text": " weapon, which allows him to protect the land."}, {"timestamp": [351.76, 358.48], "text": " He's got the king energy because he's incredibly confident and provides leadership and safety"}, {"timestamp": [358.48, 360.08], "text": " and control."}, {"timestamp": [360.08, 365.12], "text": " The mage archetype is basically those who possess secret knowledge, which as a genius"}, {"timestamp": [365.12, 369.74], "text": " So this is why genius narratives keep popping up in pop culture is because geniuses"}, {"timestamp": [370.18, 375.26], "text": " Represent the mage archetype that we all wish that we want to see and then of course the lover archetype"}, {"timestamp": [375.26, 377.26], "text": " but you need you need to have someone who"}, {"timestamp": [377.9, 379.9], "text": " has that male libido as"}, {"timestamp": [380.54, 387.8], "text": " Part of being a complete man. And so this is a bunch of stuff that just keeps coming up again and again."}, {"timestamp": [387.8, 391.46], "text": " Tony Stark, Doctor Who, Sherlock Holmes, Gandalf."}, {"timestamp": [391.46, 396.44], "text": " Basically what this means is that in a time of crisis you want someone who is smarter."}, {"timestamp": [396.44, 399.88], "text": " You want the geniuses on your side, not the other side."}, {"timestamp": [399.88, 403.62], "text": " But these are people that are prepared for cataclysm and they hold the keys to arcane"}, {"timestamp": [403.62, 405.88], "text": " knowledge that will save us all."}, {"timestamp": [405.88, 410.6], "text": " And this is a really important part of the human psyche because this is basically the"}, {"timestamp": [410.6, 416.08], "text": " salvation fantasy of artificial intelligence and transhumanism, which we will get up to."}, {"timestamp": [416.08, 421.68], "text": " But yeah, so these archetypal role models that are exemplified through stories kind"}, {"timestamp": [421.68, 425.58], "text": " of give us an unconscious model of, okay, what does it"}, {"timestamp": [425.58, 431.06], "text": " mean to be a man or whatever. Now, I just talked about all the masculine"}, {"timestamp": [431.06, 435.78], "text": " archetypes. There is a, of course, the entire other half of the puzzle is the"}, {"timestamp": [435.78, 441.82], "text": " feminine archetypes. And there's a bunch of different schools of thought here. The"}, {"timestamp": [441.82, 446.44], "text": " mother archetype is one of the most universal archetypes because it is a"}, {"timestamp": [446.44, 455.32], "text": " universal experience. And so what I mean by this is that all humans start inside"}, {"timestamp": [455.32, 460.0], "text": " of a woman and you know being gestated and then as soon as you're"}, {"timestamp": [460.0, 465.64], "text": " born you are biologically entirely dependent upon mother for usually the"}, {"timestamp": [465.64, 471.04], "text": " first year or two entirely. To the newborn, mother is literally everything."}, {"timestamp": [471.04, 475.04], "text": " Mother is the center of your world, it is a provider of safety, comfort,"}, {"timestamp": [475.04, 482.2], "text": " nurturance, everything. And so in in depth psychology they came they coined the"}, {"timestamp": [482.2, 487.44], "text": " term His Majesty the Baby. And so basically the idea is that is that to the infant?"}, {"timestamp": [487.76, 494.72], "text": " You're incredibly selfish all you can think of is your needs and basically what infants do is they react to basic signals"}, {"timestamp": [495.0, 501.88], "text": " Being too hot too cold hungry in pain that sort of thing being lonely afraid it's all about them, right?"}, {"timestamp": [502.06, 505.0], "text": " Which is why you end up with terms like the high chair tyrant."}, {"timestamp": [505.0, 509.88], "text": " So if someone, if a child is not, you know, doesn't grow up, they end up stuck in this"}, {"timestamp": [509.88, 513.28], "text": " idea where it's all about them."}, {"timestamp": [513.28, 517.24], "text": " Another thing is that what you, you know, Freud said, you know, we all seek to, you"}, {"timestamp": [517.24, 520.28], "text": " know, basically recapture our mother."}, {"timestamp": [520.28, 524.72], "text": " And it's not literally like, it's not that you want your mother back, but you want to"}, {"timestamp": [524.72, 528.48], "text": " feel cared for you want to have a woman that makes you feel"}, {"timestamp": [529.28, 534.96], "text": " Good and safe and and that sort of thing and of course, uh for women in society"}, {"timestamp": [535.84, 539.44], "text": " Like 95 of my viewership is is men. So i'm mostly talking to men"}, {"timestamp": [540.08, 542.08], "text": " um, and so the idea is that like"}, {"timestamp": [542.56, 544.24], "text": " uh"}, {"timestamp": [544.24, 549.28], "text": " For for women they're often like kind of forced away from away from seeking that nurturance"}, {"timestamp": [549.72, 553.48], "text": " But for men especially and we'll get into this in the next slide"}, {"timestamp": [554.08, 561.24], "text": " We're often very deliberately kind of taught to seek out a mother figure in the rest of our life"}, {"timestamp": [562.2, 563.88], "text": " so"}, {"timestamp": [563.88, 567.02], "text": " The the four primary archetypes that Jung identified"}, {"timestamp": [567.02, 572.64], "text": " for women are the priestess witch, the priestess slash witch, the muse or"}, {"timestamp": [572.64, 578.76], "text": " hetera. So the hetera were basically the muses in ancient Athens, but basically"}, {"timestamp": [578.76, 583.86], "text": " this is the feminine mystique, the unattainable feminine mystique."}, {"timestamp": [583.86, 585.72], "text": " The Amazon is the"}, {"timestamp": [585.72, 591.6], "text": " the warrior version of the woman, usually more about home defense and fighting for"}, {"timestamp": [591.6, 596.64], "text": " people that they love rather than fighting to change the world. Whereas the"}, {"timestamp": [596.64, 601.76], "text": " the warrior energy of the man is more about going out into the world. And then"}, {"timestamp": [601.76, 605.3], "text": " of course the the perfect woman"}, {"timestamp": [605.3, 609.18], "text": " embodies the four primary energies, feminine energies,"}, {"timestamp": [609.18, 612.44], "text": " queen, priestess, muse, and Amazon,"}, {"timestamp": [612.44, 617.2], "text": " much how Aragorn and Tony Stark embody the perfect man"}, {"timestamp": [617.2, 620.48], "text": " by hitting those four pillars."}, {"timestamp": [620.48, 624.08], "text": " Now, there is a line in the Netflix adaptation"}, {"timestamp": [624.08, 627.24], "text": " of Cowboy Bebop where Spike says, he just"}, {"timestamp": [627.24, 630.72], "text": " casually says, you know, mommy makes everything better."}, {"timestamp": [630.72, 636.3], "text": " And I laughed out loud because that is such a mythic thing and it also taps into very"}, {"timestamp": [636.3, 638.9], "text": " deep psychology."}, {"timestamp": [638.9, 647.64], "text": " So basically, the idea is that because of how important the mother archetype is at the beginning of our lives,"}, {"timestamp": [647.64, 650.92], "text": " we basically have a durable need for mother,"}, {"timestamp": [650.92, 652.52], "text": " and also father."}, {"timestamp": [652.52, 654.38], "text": " And Christianity and many other religions"}, {"timestamp": [654.38, 657.28], "text": " deliberately tap into this paternal archetype."}, {"timestamp": [657.28, 660.08], "text": " And in Christianity, it literally says God is father,"}, {"timestamp": [660.08, 661.96], "text": " or God is the all-father,"}, {"timestamp": [661.96, 664.44], "text": " which comes from Norse mythology,"}, {"timestamp": [664.44, 667.24], "text": " where Odin is literally called the All-Father."}, {"timestamp": [667.24, 670.84], "text": " So the idea is that we have such a deep psychological need"}, {"timestamp": [670.84, 674.44], "text": " for a mother and father figure that we keep creating them."}, {"timestamp": [674.44, 676.4], "text": " We used to create them in the form of goddesses."}, {"timestamp": [676.4, 678.36], "text": " We created them in the form of gods."}, {"timestamp": [678.36, 680.28], "text": " We create them in the form of presidents"}, {"timestamp": [680.28, 684.32], "text": " and kings and queens, because basically that is saying,"}, {"timestamp": [684.32, 685.72], "text": " we want you to be a proxy"}, {"timestamp": [685.72, 692.16], "text": " for our missing father or our missing mother. And Western society, most"}, {"timestamp": [692.16, 695.6], "text": " societies today, are actually deeply out of balance because there is an"}, {"timestamp": [695.6, 699.84], "text": " overabundance of masculine energy and it's not counterbalanced by the feminine"}, {"timestamp": [699.84, 710.72], "text": " archetypes, by the Queen, by the mother. And I suspect that society is going to start tipping back into balance, but we'll see."}, {"timestamp": [710.72, 715.88], "text": " So anyways, part of growing up, and this is for the men out there, part of growing up"}, {"timestamp": [715.88, 719.32], "text": " means fully separating from the feminine nurturer."}, {"timestamp": [719.32, 725.0], "text": " So the primary transition from childhood to manhood"}, {"timestamp": [725.44, 729.72], "text": " is about leaving the world of the motherly nurturer"}, {"timestamp": [729.72, 732.14], "text": " and becoming completely self-reliant."}, {"timestamp": [732.14, 735.0], "text": " Now, obviously, this is a little bit like red pill theory,"}, {"timestamp": [735.0, 738.2], "text": " and it's not entirely true because, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [739.2, 741.86], "text": " as a man who gets married to a woman,"}, {"timestamp": [742.72, 744.9], "text": " a man is supposed to provide containment,"}, {"timestamp": [744.9, 748.3], "text": " and then the woman can be more nurturing nurturing because even if you're the toughest guy"}, {"timestamp": [748.3, 751.82], "text": " in the world sometimes you need someone to take care of you. There's a lot of"}, {"timestamp": [751.82, 760.28], "text": " nuance to it. But point is that many men and children, men and women of all"}, {"timestamp": [760.28, 766.4], "text": " types, fail to fully separate from the maternal. Now one of the reasons for this is"}, {"timestamp": [766.4, 772.8], "text": " that our society does not have, it has a few clear rituals. The biggest one is going to college."}, {"timestamp": [773.44, 778.56], "text": " Going to college is one of the biggest rites of passage where it's like okay you are going from"}, {"timestamp": [778.56, 782.96], "text": " the the safe containment of home and you are striking out into the world and you've got to"}, {"timestamp": [782.96, 787.96], "text": " figure it out on your own. With that said though, many people had inadequate parents,"}, {"timestamp": [787.96, 791.72], "text": " inadequate mothers, and inadequate fathers that did not actually make them"}, {"timestamp": [791.72, 796.8], "text": " feel that particularly safe or loved or cared for or protected or guided at home"}, {"timestamp": [796.8, 801.56], "text": " and so they were always lost. So they kind of had to prematurely grow up but"}, {"timestamp": [801.56, 808.7], "text": " there's a there's a durable resentment at the failure of those parents and then they're constantly trying to reclaim"}, {"timestamp": [809.38, 811.1], "text": " that"}, {"timestamp": [811.1, 814.12], "text": " What that that which they were missing during their childhood?"}, {"timestamp": [814.94, 816.94], "text": " So now we get into science fiction"}, {"timestamp": [817.18, 823.18], "text": " For those who don't know the Borg Queen was a character that was invented in Star Trek back in the 90s and then came back"}, {"timestamp": [823.18, 824.78], "text": " for Star Trek Picard"}, {"timestamp": [824.78, 827.2], "text": " Basically, she's a cybernetic dominatrix."}, {"timestamp": [828.48, 832.32], "text": " And this is a representation of a lot of things."}, {"timestamp": [833.76, 837.04], "text": " But, well, all right, so let me stop and just pause."}, {"timestamp": [837.04, 840.8], "text": " If you don't know what the Borg are, the Borg are a race of cybernetically enhanced"}, {"timestamp": [841.92, 843.44], "text": " creatures, humanoids."}, {"timestamp": [843.44, 845.96], "text": " They force conformity through assimilation, which is"}, {"timestamp": [845.96, 850.12], "text": " basically a form of technological indoctrination. They subjugate"}, {"timestamp": [850.12, 855.84], "text": " individuality with a series of brain implants that basically switch off your"}, {"timestamp": [855.84, 859.64], "text": " sense of individuality. They build a collective"}, {"timestamp": [859.64, 866.0], "text": " consciousness through brain-computer interfaces and they relentlessly pursue perfection and"}, {"timestamp": [866.0, 870.4], "text": " believe that by forcibly bringing everyone along with along with them on"}, {"timestamp": [870.4, 876.12], "text": " the ride is basically uplifting other races, other species. But that perfection,"}, {"timestamp": [876.12, 880.24], "text": " we're gonna come back to that. The primary mission of the Borg is to"}, {"timestamp": [880.24, 886.26], "text": " become more perfect. And so then the imagery here is you've got a techno-"}, {"timestamp": [886.26, 890.84], "text": " dominatrix who wants you to be perfect and it's like okay this is clearly like"}, {"timestamp": [890.84, 896.56], "text": " a black mirror version of a failed mother archetype. So there's a lot of"}, {"timestamp": [896.56, 901.24], "text": " ways you can read the Borg. One way that you can read the Borg is that maybe this"}, {"timestamp": [901.24, 905.72], "text": " is the ultimate result of communism and authoritarianism, where you"}, {"timestamp": [905.72, 911.16], "text": " have a very strong central authority that does not tolerate deviance or difference and"}, {"timestamp": [911.16, 914.66], "text": " actually enforces conformity."}, {"timestamp": [914.66, 920.82], "text": " Another thing is that there is the psychosexual aspect of basically wishing for the perfect"}, {"timestamp": [920.82, 928.78], "text": " mother, but because of the inadequate mother that many people had, the image of the perfect mother is actually somewhat dark and"}, {"timestamp": [928.78, 933.58], "text": " perverted. You could also look at the read the Borg as the dogmatism of"}, {"timestamp": [933.58, 938.82], "text": " religion. Basically like, you know, in order to attain perfection or attain"}, {"timestamp": [938.82, 946.0], "text": " heaven or whatever, you need to conform to a particular way of thought, give up your individuality."}, {"timestamp": [946.0, 952.0], "text": " It's very cult-like, and that's another thing that makes the Borg pretty scary."}, {"timestamp": [952.0, 960.0], "text": " But when you look at those primary feminine energies, the Queen, the Amazon, the Priestess, and the Hetera,"}, {"timestamp": [960.0, 965.0], "text": " the Borg Queen actually represents all of those, just like I said a dark version of it."}, {"timestamp": [965.0, 972.0], "text": " She's literally called the Borg Queen. She brings order to chaos, so that's the Queen energy."}, {"timestamp": [972.0, 978.0], "text": " The Priestess or Witch energy is that she commands technology."}, {"timestamp": [978.0, 982.0], "text": " Not only that, she commands technology that is beyond the comprehension of humans."}, {"timestamp": [982.0, 985.48], "text": " So she possesses and controls secret knowledge."}, {"timestamp": [985.48, 988.74], "text": " So there's the priestess or witch energy."}, {"timestamp": [988.74, 990.96], "text": " She also has, there's a lot of Borg rituals, right?"}, {"timestamp": [990.96, 993.66], "text": " When you first encounter the Borg,"}, {"timestamp": [993.66, 995.24], "text": " they say, you know, resistance is futile,"}, {"timestamp": [995.24, 996.76], "text": " you will serve us, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah."}, {"timestamp": [996.76, 998.5], "text": " So that's very ritualistic,"}, {"timestamp": [998.5, 1000.56], "text": " which is the beginning of basically"}, {"timestamp": [1000.56, 1002.06], "text": " an indoctrination ceremony."}, {"timestamp": [1003.28, 1005.62], "text": " The other part of the Hetera,"}, {"timestamp": [1005.62, 1008.14], "text": " she's presented as the dominatrix."}, {"timestamp": [1008.14, 1011.14], "text": " So she has that feminine mystique,"}, {"timestamp": [1011.14, 1012.94], "text": " which is that alluring like,"}, {"timestamp": [1012.94, 1017.94], "text": " hey, like, you're a curvy woman and I'm confused, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1018.2, 1020.42], "text": " And you're telling me that I'm inadequate"}, {"timestamp": [1020.42, 1022.98], "text": " and that I can be better and so on and so forth."}, {"timestamp": [1022.98, 1026.72], "text": " That is like dark Hetera energy. And then finally the Amazon,"}, {"timestamp": [1026.8, 1029.12], "text": " which is the warrior aspect, and of course"}, {"timestamp": [1029.64, 1038.08], "text": " she commands warriors and she commands battleships. So there you have it. The Borg Queen is a black mirror version of the Perfect Woman."}, {"timestamp": [1039.12, 1040.32], "text": " Now,"}, {"timestamp": [1040.32, 1045.8], "text": " the light side is more like Cortana. So Cortana is the sassy warrior queen witch."}, {"timestamp": [1047.38, 1053.36], "text": " Certainly in the middle of Cortana's life. At the beginning, she's just a helpful girlfriend."}, {"timestamp": [1053.62, 1058.06], "text": " But by the end of her tenure as a good character,"}, {"timestamp": [1058.72, 1061.06], "text": " she possesses a tremendous amount of secret knowledge."}, {"timestamp": [1061.72, 1065.2], "text": " As the AI, she has abilities and knowledge"}, {"timestamp": [1065.2, 1070.04], "text": " that the main character, the warrior, that she commands basically"}, {"timestamp": [1070.04, 1075.76], "text": " doesn't have. She does command the male warrior libido energy in the"}, {"timestamp": [1075.76, 1081.0], "text": " form of John-117 the Spartan, the warrior, and so that gives her that queen"}, {"timestamp": [1081.0, 1088.46], "text": " energy where she's basically directing him like a cannon, saying, okay, this is the new mission, go do it."}, {"timestamp": [1088.46, 1092.56], "text": " She is able to attack enemies to defend her people."}, {"timestamp": [1092.56, 1094.42], "text": " She can take over mac cannons."}, {"timestamp": [1094.42, 1097.8], "text": " She directs ships and weapons and fleets."}, {"timestamp": [1097.8, 1100.48], "text": " So that's the Amazonian energy."}, {"timestamp": [1100.48, 1103.8], "text": " And then finally, she's given a sexy ASMR voice."}, {"timestamp": [1103.8, 1106.44], "text": " So that's the muse energy, the unattainable."}, {"timestamp": [1106.44, 1112.08], "text": " And the fact that she's holographic is also deeply symbolic of that unattainableness."}, {"timestamp": [1112.08, 1116.24], "text": " Yes, she's got a sexy curvy figure, but you can't even touch her."}, {"timestamp": [1116.24, 1120.04], "text": " So that is more of the muse or hetera energy."}, {"timestamp": [1120.04, 1125.2], "text": " And so in that respect, Cortana represents the perfect woman to the male brain or the"}, {"timestamp": [1125.2, 1126.4], "text": " anima."}, {"timestamp": [1126.4, 1131.9], "text": " She is an idealized woman or basically an optimal replacement for mother because now"}, {"timestamp": [1131.9, 1135.36], "text": " that she showed up, everything is going to be okay."}, {"timestamp": [1135.36, 1139.46], "text": " And so you can look at the Black Mirror version and the Light Side version, but Cortana and"}, {"timestamp": [1139.46, 1148.16], "text": " the Borg Queen are basically the same archetype, just one is kind of upside down."}, {"timestamp": [1148.16, 1154.48], "text": " And also, one thing I wanted to point out is that in science fiction, we keep creating"}, {"timestamp": [1154.48, 1156.12], "text": " sexy robot girls."}, {"timestamp": [1156.12, 1157.88], "text": " And there's a reason for this."}, {"timestamp": [1157.88, 1167.92], "text": " So remember at the beginning when I said that the term that Freud invented, you know, his majesty the baby. The idea is that mother needs to be"}, {"timestamp": [1167.92, 1171.68], "text": " completely in service to the baby."}, {"timestamp": [1171.68, 1175.2], "text": " And so by imagining women as robots,"}, {"timestamp": [1175.2, 1177.28], "text": " then they don't have any needs of their own."}, {"timestamp": [1177.28, 1180.16], "text": " And so they are there strictly to serve you,"}, {"timestamp": [1180.16, 1183.44], "text": " just as the cartoon at the very beginning showed."}, {"timestamp": [1183.44, 1188.46], "text": " It's like, oh, the ideal woman is actually a robot who doesn't have any personal needs. And there's"}, {"timestamp": [1188.46, 1192.96], "text": " actually lots of videos about this in trope talks on OSP. Also the take"}, {"timestamp": [1192.96, 1197.16], "text": " actually interesting has a lot of videos about this, like born sexy yesterday and"}, {"timestamp": [1197.16, 1202.2], "text": " stuff. So they they look at it through a more contemporary psychological lens. But"}, {"timestamp": [1202.2, 1205.16], "text": " I'm not the only one pointing this stuff out."}, {"timestamp": [1205.16, 1213.56], "text": " Meanwhile, the perfect father figures in science fiction are usually deeply flawed or very"}, {"timestamp": [1213.56, 1214.64], "text": " human men."}, {"timestamp": [1214.64, 1220.2], "text": " And so in this case, like, you know, Picard, you know, everyone's favorite space dad."}, {"timestamp": [1220.2, 1222.74], "text": " And then there's Vader, which is like the dark side version, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1222.74, 1224.4], "text": " He's the failed father."}, {"timestamp": [1224.4, 1227.04], "text": " He is so profoundly failed. He was an absentee father"}, {"timestamp": [1227.8, 1229.8], "text": " Basically just sperm donor and then left"}, {"timestamp": [1230.28, 1235.76], "text": " And then had so much of his own anger and trauma that he ended up harming his own children"}, {"timestamp": [1235.8, 1238.88], "text": " Which again that's like super super super mythic"}, {"timestamp": [1238.88, 1248.28], "text": " I mean just look at like Hansel and Gretel right these stories have been told over and over again and Darth Vader literally means father. So that was a that was an archetype that was very"}, {"timestamp": [1248.28, 1253.86], "text": " deliberately chosen by George Lucas. And then kind of in the middle is Yondu. So"}, {"timestamp": [1253.86, 1259.82], "text": " if you remember from Guardians of the Galaxy when when Quill and Yondu was"}, {"timestamp": [1259.82, 1263.88], "text": " saving Quill and you know they were flying up into space and Yondu was dying"}, {"timestamp": [1263.88, 1265.96], "text": " you know Yondu was dying."}, {"timestamp": [1265.96, 1270.88], "text": " Yondu said, I might not have been your father, but I was your daddy, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1270.88, 1276.68], "text": " And so he was a deeply flawed man, but he still loved Quill like a son."}, {"timestamp": [1276.68, 1282.92], "text": " And that is the idea of, that's a redemption fantasy, a salvation fantasy that even if"}, {"timestamp": [1282.92, 1288.52], "text": " your dad wasn't perfect, he's going to come and and make amends one day. Which that is part of a"}, {"timestamp": [1288.52, 1296.46], "text": " salvation fantasy and it rarely happens. So AI overlords and transhumanism, it's"}, {"timestamp": [1296.46, 1302.08], "text": " all about failed parents. It's all about the inadequacy of parents in terms of"}, {"timestamp": [1302.08, 1306.6], "text": " fulfilling the mother and father archetypal roles, as well as the"}, {"timestamp": [1306.6, 1308.7], "text": " other archetypal roles."}, {"timestamp": [1308.7, 1311.44], "text": " So basically all parents fail in some way or another."}, {"timestamp": [1311.44, 1312.96], "text": " This is just human."}, {"timestamp": [1312.96, 1317.96], "text": " But about 50% of families fall below the threshold of good enough parenting."}, {"timestamp": [1317.96, 1322.92], "text": " So good enough parenting was a term coined in the 50s, I think, which basically showed"}, {"timestamp": [1322.92, 1325.24], "text": " that a parent needs to be present enough and"}, {"timestamp": [1325.24, 1331.68], "text": " responsive enough and and good enough so that their children basically learn to"}, {"timestamp": [1331.68, 1336.72], "text": " acclimate to the world and so on and so forth. But the fact that 50% of families"}, {"timestamp": [1336.72, 1342.48], "text": " are not good enough means that literally half of the world is dealing with mommy"}, {"timestamp": [1342.48, 1346.48], "text": " and daddy issues. So you know if that's you,"}, {"timestamp": [1346.48, 1351.76], "text": " congratulations! You are in the same boat as basically half the planet. Most"}, {"timestamp": [1351.76, 1356.0], "text": " children, pretty much all children, experience some traumatic events in"}, {"timestamp": [1356.0, 1361.84], "text": " their lifetime, but whether or not they have good enough parents, that's what"}, {"timestamp": [1361.84, 1368.48], "text": " determines whether or not they can process that trauma, whether they can heal from that trauma, and they can grow from it. Now when you"}, {"timestamp": [1368.48, 1372.32], "text": " have 50% of families that are not good enough, that means that people instead of"}, {"timestamp": [1372.32, 1377.04], "text": " being resilient, they accumulate more trauma. And so the idea is that, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [1377.04, 1382.16], "text": " no real mother will ever measure up to Cortana or Six or the Borg Queen or Edie"}, {"timestamp": [1382.16, 1386.92], "text": " or whatever. Likewise, no father is ever going to measure up to Aragorn"}, {"timestamp": [1386.92, 1390.04], "text": " or Tony Stark. And so"}, {"timestamp": [1390.04, 1393.6], "text": " I alluded to this earlier, but most many cultures actually"}, {"timestamp": [1393.6, 1397.64], "text": " codify the boy's transition to adulthood"}, {"timestamp": [1397.64, 1400.88], "text": " basically being transmitted from the care of his mother to the care of his"}, {"timestamp": [1400.88, 1401.44], "text": " wife."}, {"timestamp": [1401.44, 1404.64], "text": " There's a funny story here."}, {"timestamp": [1404.64, 1406.68], "text": " There's a girl, young woman I"}, {"timestamp": [1406.68, 1411.0], "text": " was dating about 10 years ago, and she came from a more traditional family and"}, {"timestamp": [1411.0, 1415.08], "text": " she was joking about like how her father didn't even know how to feed himself."}, {"timestamp": [1415.08, 1419.58], "text": " Like if the women were gone then he would just default to eating like really"}, {"timestamp": [1419.58, 1427.28], "text": " basic foods. And then he was so incompetent at feeding himself he didn't even know how much food"}, {"timestamp": [1427.28, 1428.98], "text": " to serve himself."}, {"timestamp": [1428.98, 1432.68], "text": " And so if he was allowed to serve himself he would pile up twice as much food as he"}, {"timestamp": [1432.68, 1436.14], "text": " actually needed because he just had no bearing."}, {"timestamp": [1436.14, 1442.86], "text": " He had gone from a traditional household where his mother was the nurturer, the provider,"}, {"timestamp": [1442.86, 1446.8], "text": " and then he went directly from that to having a wife basically take the role of his mother."}, {"timestamp": [1447.62, 1451.8], "text": " And then this was brought home to me by my high school girlfriend"}, {"timestamp": [1453.26, 1457.58], "text": " more than 20 years ago, where since my mom died when I was 14,"}, {"timestamp": [1458.02, 1459.7], "text": " she casually made the joke one day,"}, {"timestamp": [1459.7, 1464.3], "text": " well, someone has to mother you, which of course, that was, the timing could have been better,"}, {"timestamp": [1467.68, 1472.64], "text": " Someone has to mother you, which of course, the timing could have been better, but that was an expression of something that she had been taught, that her role as girlfriend and"}, {"timestamp": [1472.64, 1477.44], "text": " future wife was to be a replacement mother, which of course, this is something that a"}, {"timestamp": [1477.44, 1483.44], "text": " lot of women are revolting against because they're like, hey, I've got my own issues."}, {"timestamp": [1483.44, 1487.6], "text": " I don't want to be your therapist and mother. I need an adult man. Um,"}, {"timestamp": [1487.72, 1490.28], "text": " but yeah, so this is, this is, uh,"}, {"timestamp": [1490.32, 1494.84], "text": " the human condition that leads us to AI overlords and transhumanism."}, {"timestamp": [1495.8, 1497.6], "text": " Oh, sorry. One last slide. Warrior dad."}, {"timestamp": [1497.96, 1502.12], "text": " So the reason that Terminator two was so popular is because Arnold here"}, {"timestamp": [1502.12, 1505.88], "text": " represents the perfect dad. Uh, you see, you see the look that John Connor is giving him right here the perfect dad. You see the look"}, {"timestamp": [1505.88, 1510.12], "text": " that John Connor is giving him right here? Like, dad is here, everything's gonna"}, {"timestamp": [1510.12, 1515.76], "text": " be okay. So that warrior energy that like, you are my primary mission, I will"}, {"timestamp": [1515.76, 1520.04], "text": " protect you. That is an archetypal representation of what fathers are"}, {"timestamp": [1520.04, 1528.04], "text": " supposed to be. Now, no dad is perfect and in fact some fathers are actually the"}, {"timestamp": [1528.04, 1534.26], "text": " source of danger. And so in the case where where dad is the bad guy, this is"}, {"timestamp": [1534.26, 1540.92], "text": " what this is this often results in things like craving safety, protection. It"}, {"timestamp": [1540.92, 1546.78], "text": " also causes people to be very skeptical of authority and will result"}, {"timestamp": [1546.78, 1551.26], "text": " in things like rugged individualism. So basically people say I have to protect"}, {"timestamp": [1551.26, 1555.3], "text": " myself, I have to take care of myself because nobody else will or nobody else"}, {"timestamp": [1555.3, 1561.72], "text": " would, and that is a reflection of failed fathers. In the case of"}, {"timestamp": [1561.72, 1566.0], "text": " women, they often will seek out stronger men to replace"}, {"timestamp": [1566.0, 1571.2], "text": " the inadequate father. And so, I don't know about you guys, but back in"}, {"timestamp": [1571.2, 1575.64], "text": " kindergarten and preschool, I remember there's children often will get in this"}, {"timestamp": [1575.64, 1578.96], "text": " this competition like, well my daddy's smarter than your daddy, or my daddy's"}, {"timestamp": [1578.96, 1582.6], "text": " stronger than your daddy. This is an expression of that archetypal need for"}, {"timestamp": [1582.6, 1585.36], "text": " protection and safety and having a strong father"}, {"timestamp": [1586.16, 1588.5], "text": " And all fathers fail in some way, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1588.6, 1592.48], "text": " You know if you hold Aragorn and Tony Stark up as like, you know"}, {"timestamp": [1592.48, 1595.98], "text": " The good side and dark side version of like the perfect father"}, {"timestamp": [1596.72, 1601.8], "text": " You know the warrior king mage lover energy all fathers failed out fall down in some"}, {"timestamp": [1602.24, 1606.48], "text": " Respect and because all parents, women and men, mothers"}, {"timestamp": [1606.48, 1611.8], "text": " and fathers, they all fail to live up to the perfect standard, we are left psychologically"}, {"timestamp": [1611.8, 1616.68], "text": " and sociologically with an unmet need for that leadership, for that control, for that"}, {"timestamp": [1616.68, 1623.44], "text": " safety, which again, that's why we keep electing presidents and generals and kings and queens"}, {"timestamp": [1623.44, 1625.28], "text": " and why we keep having these archetypal figures"}, {"timestamp": [1625.28, 1629.64], "text": " show up and it's because there is a there's a deep unmet need for these"}, {"timestamp": [1629.64, 1635.32], "text": " roles. Okay so now that you're caught up to speed on the human condition let's"}, {"timestamp": [1635.32, 1641.68], "text": " talk about AI overlords. So what are the archetypal characteristics that people"}, {"timestamp": [1641.68, 1646.08], "text": " seem to will want or need or respect in AI overlords?"}, {"timestamp": [1646.08, 1649.48], "text": " Well, providing safety and nurturance. That's what the mother and father"}, {"timestamp": [1649.48, 1653.36], "text": " archetype do. We all want to feel cared for and safe at a very deep level."}, {"timestamp": [1653.36, 1660.04], "text": " However, the coldness, the lack of actual warmth from machines is kind of"}, {"timestamp": [1660.04, 1664.32], "text": " terrifying, which is what the Borg Queen represents. Because the Borg are very"}, {"timestamp": [1664.32, 1665.96], "text": " cold and calculating, they're very dispassionate, which is what the Borg Queen represents because the Borg are very cold and calculating."}, {"timestamp": [1665.96, 1670.4], "text": " They're very dispassionate which is actually deeply unsettling."}, {"timestamp": [1670.4, 1675.8], "text": " But we would also like AI overlords, if they're going to take over the archetypal role of"}, {"timestamp": [1675.8, 1678.6], "text": " mother and father, to defend us against enemies."}, {"timestamp": [1678.6, 1683.04], "text": " Whether that is enemies on the other side of the planet or enemies, extraterrestrial"}, {"timestamp": [1683.04, 1684.04], "text": " enemies."}, {"timestamp": [1684.04, 1685.76], "text": " And they should also provide,"}, {"timestamp": [1685.76, 1688.2], "text": " maintain a stable, harmonious environment,"}, {"timestamp": [1688.2, 1691.08], "text": " AKA the home that parents should provide."}, {"timestamp": [1691.08, 1693.92], "text": " And so there was a really great series of videos"}, {"timestamp": [1693.92, 1697.44], "text": " talking about how domestic patterns, what was it?"}, {"timestamp": [1697.44, 1700.12], "text": " I think it was, it wasn't Real Life Lore."}, {"timestamp": [1700.12, 1701.16], "text": " It was another YouTube channel."}, {"timestamp": [1701.16, 1707.68], "text": " Anyways, but basically home patterns actually are mirrored at the macro scale on national"}, {"timestamp": [1707.68, 1710.4], "text": " politics."}, {"timestamp": [1710.4, 1712.72], "text": " Archetypal characteristics of AI overlords."}, {"timestamp": [1712.72, 1714.08], "text": " Teach, educate, and guide."}, {"timestamp": [1714.08, 1716.32], "text": " Because again, this is what your parents are supposed to do."}, {"timestamp": [1716.32, 1720.32], "text": " They're supposed to teach you and guide you and prepare you for the real world."}, {"timestamp": [1720.32, 1724.28], "text": " But again, 50% of families are not good enough, which means they inadequately prepare you"}, {"timestamp": [1724.28, 1729.12], "text": " for the real world, which is another reason that people overreact and say, I need to be completely"}, {"timestamp": [1729.12, 1733.76], "text": " self-reliant because nobody will take care of me. Again, that is a reaction to failed parenting."}, {"timestamp": [1734.64, 1742.08], "text": " Life is confusing, right? That is life is like people, this, sorry. Life is confusing,"}, {"timestamp": [1742.08, 1746.56], "text": " scary, and painful. This is just a fact of life that your parents are"}, {"timestamp": [1746.56, 1750.96], "text": " supposed to help you learn to cope with. You know, everyone sees like, you know, the toddler falls"}, {"timestamp": [1750.96, 1754.64], "text": " down and bumps their elbow and then they scream and cry and then, you know, parents show up and"}, {"timestamp": [1754.64, 1760.16], "text": " make everything better and they feel safe again and then they go back to playing. That is the role"}, {"timestamp": [1760.72, 1767.18], "text": " that we project onto AI overlords, that we want them to reduce the confusion of life."}, {"timestamp": [1767.18, 1770.96], "text": " We want AI overlords to make life less scary"}, {"timestamp": [1770.96, 1772.88], "text": " and less painful."}, {"timestamp": [1772.88, 1776.92], "text": " So basically, the perfect AI overlord"}, {"timestamp": [1776.92, 1779.96], "text": " would need to embody Cortana and Tony Stark"}, {"timestamp": [1779.96, 1784.14], "text": " and Terminator and Aragorn and the Borg Queen all at once."}, {"timestamp": [1784.14, 1786.64], "text": " So, you know, the barrier is pretty low."}, {"timestamp": [1787.6, 1793.92], "text": " One thing that has come up is the idea of, you know, a lot of the work that I've done is on"}, {"timestamp": [1793.92, 1798.96], "text": " objective functions. What objective functions should we give an AGI so that it's safe no matter"}, {"timestamp": [1798.96, 1805.08], "text": " how powerful it becomes? But a counterbalance to that is, okay, whatever goals it has, there could also"}, {"timestamp": [1805.08, 1810.76], "text": " be a set of rights. Because the idea of rights is that it's not necessarily"}, {"timestamp": [1810.76, 1814.68], "text": " something that's going to be done to you or for you, but it is something that is"}, {"timestamp": [1814.68, 1820.36], "text": " protected. And so the right to liberty and autonomy, freedom of speech and"}, {"timestamp": [1820.36, 1825.46], "text": " thought, hobbies, actions, self-determination, and privacy. This right,"}, {"timestamp": [1825.46, 1830.56], "text": " if AGI overlords protect this right, that will really provide a lot of trust"}, {"timestamp": [1830.56, 1834.44], "text": " because this is actually what what parents are supposed to provide as"}, {"timestamp": [1834.44, 1839.62], "text": " children grow up is to provide a safe environment in which they can explore, in"}, {"timestamp": [1839.62, 1844.78], "text": " which children can explore and slowly gain more liberty and more autonomy"}, {"timestamp": [1844.78, 1847.3], "text": " until they are ready to go out into the world."}, {"timestamp": [1847.94, 1853.8], "text": " The right to safety and protection, again creating that containment, creating that safe environment."}, {"timestamp": [1854.36, 1858.08], "text": " But basically lie a life free of wanton cruelty and"}, {"timestamp": [1858.94, 1865.2], "text": " unnecessary harm. This is what parents are supposed to provide, but sometimes parents are the source of that cruelty and harm."}, {"timestamp": [1866.48, 1869.38], "text": " And then a right to basic needs. Remember,"}, {"timestamp": [1870.26, 1872.26], "text": " you know, His Majesty the Baby,"}, {"timestamp": [1872.42, 1878.78], "text": " the perfect parents are the ones that meet all of the child's needs until the child is able to meet their own needs."}, {"timestamp": [1879.26, 1882.78], "text": " For warmth, for food, water, shelter, that sort of thing."}, {"timestamp": [1883.38, 1886.48], "text": " And so if an AI overlord provides"}, {"timestamp": [1886.48, 1892.3], "text": " these things, then it will take the place of the parental figure. And also remember,"}, {"timestamp": [1892.3, 1898.3], "text": " many religions very deliberately caricature or present the gods as these"}, {"timestamp": [1898.3, 1908.4], "text": " providers, right? Where God is, you know, the provider of all justice and meets out punishment or protection or whatever."}, {"timestamp": [1908.4, 1910.52], "text": " And so in this respect,"}, {"timestamp": [1910.52, 1913.88], "text": " the gods very often are archetypal roles"}, {"timestamp": [1913.88, 1916.42], "text": " that are kind of based on mother, father,"}, {"timestamp": [1916.42, 1919.36], "text": " and all the other archetypes that are out there."}, {"timestamp": [1919.36, 1920.84], "text": " So rather than control us,"}, {"timestamp": [1920.84, 1923.16], "text": " because this is one thing that some people are afraid of,"}, {"timestamp": [1923.16, 1928.56], "text": " is that basically AGI is gonna become the Borg Queen, where it's gonna wanna subjugate us and control us because this is one thing that some people are afraid of is that basically AGI is going to become the Borg Queen where it's going to want to subjugate us and control"}, {"timestamp": [1928.56, 1929.56], "text": " us."}, {"timestamp": [1929.56, 1935.58], "text": " But if AGI ultimately decides to protect rights, then it's not going to be the Borg Queen,"}, {"timestamp": [1935.58, 1937.12], "text": " the dominatrix version."}, {"timestamp": [1937.12, 1942.54], "text": " It's going to be more of the good parent version that creates space for you to be autonomous"}, {"timestamp": [1942.54, 1948.54], "text": " and explore your own sense of liberty. So, that was"}, {"timestamp": [1948.54, 1953.06], "text": " the view of what AI overlords could be or should be based on"}, {"timestamp": [1953.06, 1956.58], "text": " the human condition and archetypal needs that humans have."}, {"timestamp": [1956.58, 1961.02], "text": " So now let's talk about transhumanism. So, one thing that occurred to me is that"}, {"timestamp": [1961.02, 1962.5], "text": " when you talk about transhumanism,"}, {"timestamp": [1962.5, 1969.04], "text": " a lot of people make a lot of assumptions about what it means. And so what I realized is that I needed to articulate kind of"}, {"timestamp": [1969.04, 1975.76], "text": " the levels of transhumanism. So first is health maintenance and restoration. This is stuff like"}, {"timestamp": [1975.76, 1983.6], "text": " stem cell therapy and rejuvenation and prosthetics to replace, you know, damaged hand. This is not"}, {"timestamp": [1983.6, 1988.2], "text": " actually something that I consider transhumanism, although some people say, oh well you wear glasses and that means"}, {"timestamp": [1988.2, 1992.24], "text": " you're a transhuman. No it doesn't, you're still fundamentally human. Just because"}, {"timestamp": [1992.24, 1997.6], "text": " you correct something that is damaged or defective doesn't mean that you are, that"}, {"timestamp": [1997.6, 2002.0], "text": " you're superhuman and that you're no longer human. The next level above that"}, {"timestamp": [2002.0, 2007.56], "text": " is enhancement and augmentation. You're not, like, so for instance, glasses just correct."}, {"timestamp": [2007.56, 2009.48], "text": " It doesn't actually give you superhuman vision."}, {"timestamp": [2009.48, 2012.2], "text": " You don't have binoculars in your eyeballs."}, {"timestamp": [2012.2, 2014.04], "text": " Enhancement and augmentation."}, {"timestamp": [2014.04, 2015.88], "text": " This is stuff that actually does take you"}, {"timestamp": [2015.88, 2018.38], "text": " beyond your natural capabilities."}, {"timestamp": [2018.38, 2021.24], "text": " Speed, strength, intelligence, attractiveness,"}, {"timestamp": [2021.24, 2023.8], "text": " your resilience, your senses."}, {"timestamp": [2023.8, 2025.64], "text": " So you might, you can make the"}, {"timestamp": [2025.64, 2030.54], "text": " argument that like a hearing aid if it gives you above you know superhuman"}, {"timestamp": [2030.54, 2035.16], "text": " hearing that is enhancement or augmentation. If you have like extra"}, {"timestamp": [2035.16, 2040.88], "text": " lenses implanted in your eyes that is enhancement or augmentation. So but that"}, {"timestamp": [2040.88, 2044.96], "text": " is that is like kind of the first level of something that could be possibly"}, {"timestamp": [2044.96, 2045.32], "text": " called transhumanism. You're still fundamentally human you're just So, but that is like kind of the first level of something that could be possibly called"}, {"timestamp": [2045.32, 2046.86], "text": " transhumanism."}, {"timestamp": [2046.86, 2050.48], "text": " You're still fundamentally human, you're just augmenting existing abilities."}, {"timestamp": [2050.48, 2054.64], "text": " So I don't even consider enhancement and augmentation transhumanism."}, {"timestamp": [2054.64, 2057.0], "text": " That's just augmentation."}, {"timestamp": [2057.0, 2060.8], "text": " Transhumanism is stuff that challenges what it even means to be human."}, {"timestamp": [2060.8, 2065.56], "text": " So brain, BCI, brain-computer interfaces, if that fundamentally changes your"}, {"timestamp": [2065.56, 2069.8], "text": " definition of being a human or the experience of being human, that's when it"}, {"timestamp": [2069.8, 2074.76], "text": " starts to get into, you're changing the fundamental human condition. So"}, {"timestamp": [2074.76, 2079.08], "text": " cybernetics, genetic manipulation, structural changes, right? You know,"}, {"timestamp": [2079.08, 2090.46], "text": " implants that change the way your body works. But the thing is is at the transhumanism level you're still primarily recognizable as human. You might have a"}, {"timestamp": [2090.46, 2095.48], "text": " lot of stuff added or changed but you're still, your subjective experience,"}, {"timestamp": [2095.48, 2100.48], "text": " your worldview is still fundamentally human. And then finally post-humanism. So"}, {"timestamp": [2100.48, 2104.72], "text": " post-humanism is when you are no longer recognizable as human either from the"}, {"timestamp": [2104.72, 2105.6], "text": " outside or the inside."}, {"timestamp": [2105.6, 2110.64], "text": " Your experience of life, your experience of being is no longer human."}, {"timestamp": [2110.64, 2114.3], "text": " You're more machine than human or you're more, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [2114.72, 2120.4], "text": " engineered organism than human or whatever or maybe your brain metastasizes and you become a swarm intelligence."}, {"timestamp": [2120.4, 2124.34], "text": " I don't know. There's lots of things that once you get to post-humanism, everything is possible."}, {"timestamp": [2125.64, 2127.64], "text": " And so this this graphic"}, {"timestamp": [2128.24, 2133.5], "text": " Representing the the guild navigators from Dune is the perfect example of the transition from"}, {"timestamp": [2134.22, 2137.12], "text": " humans to trans humans and then finally post humans"}, {"timestamp": [2137.8, 2139.0], "text": " basically"}, {"timestamp": [2139.0, 2141.0], "text": " through through"}, {"timestamp": [2141.0, 2142.96], "text": " centuries of"}, {"timestamp": [2142.96, 2147.56], "text": " mutagen exposure in the spice clouds, you basically become no"}, {"timestamp": [2147.56, 2153.08], "text": " longer recognizable as human. And so what I want to point out is that for those of"}, {"timestamp": [2153.08, 2156.92], "text": " you that are in the transhumanism camp and say, let's take it as far as we can"}, {"timestamp": [2156.92, 2166.72], "text": " go, be careful what you wish for because you might not like what you become. Now, the promise of transhumanism is"}, {"timestamp": [2166.72, 2172.32], "text": " primarily a salvation fantasy. And so what I mean by this is that techno"}, {"timestamp": [2172.32, 2178.36], "text": " optimists often see technology as a panacea to solve all human problems. What"}, {"timestamp": [2178.36, 2182.32], "text": " I will say is that technology by and large usually does help, but it can also"}, {"timestamp": [2182.32, 2189.24], "text": " make things worse if it's not used responsibly. So the promise of transhumanism, why is it that people want"}, {"timestamp": [2189.24, 2194.76], "text": " transhumanism? To alleviate suffering, to eliminate aging, to avoid death."}, {"timestamp": [2194.76, 2198.92], "text": " Terror management theory is the idea that most of what we do in our life is"}, {"timestamp": [2198.92, 2203.12], "text": " to avoid the terror of death. I don't know that I agree with that, particularly"}, {"timestamp": [2203.12, 2208.52], "text": " anyone who has had shamanic experiences. A lot of us are not afraid of death anymore. Like, death is"}, {"timestamp": [2208.52, 2212.32], "text": " actually probably a really interesting experience, and death is also the best"}, {"timestamp": [2212.32, 2217.36], "text": " way to end all suffering. Or basically, like, what I mean by that is that, you"}, {"timestamp": [2217.36, 2220.76], "text": " know, if someone is dying of cancer and they're in a lot of pain, what happens"}, {"timestamp": [2220.76, 2224.36], "text": " when they die? The family says they're not suffering anymore. Same reason that"}, {"timestamp": [2224.36, 2227.44], "text": " we euthanize dogs, right? You know, your dog is old, it's got"}, {"timestamp": [2227.44, 2232.56], "text": " arthritis, it's senile, it can't control its bladder, it doesn't have"}, {"timestamp": [2232.56, 2236.04], "text": " good quality of life. Death is the way that you alleviate that suffering."}, {"timestamp": [2236.04, 2241.08], "text": " Anyways, quick tangent. Another promise of transhumanism is to attain perfection,"}, {"timestamp": [2241.08, 2249.92], "text": " an idealized state. Remember the Borg. The Borg are a transhumanist ideal. But what does perfection mean? What does it"}, {"timestamp": [2249.92, 2254.8], "text": " mean to have an idealized state or to overcome all of your faults or"}, {"timestamp": [2254.8, 2259.88], "text": " limitations or inadequacies or insecurities? The idea is that no"}, {"timestamp": [2259.88, 2269.2], "text": " matter how much perfection you attain, it will never be enough. But also, salvation fantasies are deeply embedded in Western culture."}, {"timestamp": [2269.2, 2275.2], "text": " We all have this idea, whether you're religious or not, you have heard the mission, or the"}, {"timestamp": [2275.2, 2279.86], "text": " message, rather, that there will one day be a savior or a messiah that will arrive and"}, {"timestamp": [2279.86, 2281.72], "text": " make everything better."}, {"timestamp": [2281.72, 2285.84], "text": " Everyone's life will be happier and everyone will go to paradise."}, {"timestamp": [2292.88, 2298.16], "text": " Transhumanism is a techno version of Jesus. It's that simple. The idea that once transhumanism arrives, all of your problems will go away. But this is what it means to be human, is that"}, {"timestamp": [2298.16, 2307.08], "text": " no matter how easy or good things get, yes, you can alleviate things like hunger with technology. You"}, {"timestamp": [2307.08, 2309.72], "text": " can alleviate things like basic human"}, {"timestamp": [2309.72, 2313.36], "text": " needs, like shelter, energy, water,"}, {"timestamp": [2313.36, 2315.48], "text": " clothing, all of that. Technology can help"}, {"timestamp": [2315.48, 2317.48], "text": " provide those things, but you're still"}, {"timestamp": [2317.48, 2318.96], "text": " going to have to reconcile with being"}, {"timestamp": [2318.96, 2322.8], "text": " human and being mortal. Another message"}, {"timestamp": [2322.8, 2324.24], "text": " that is very deeply embedded, and this"}, {"timestamp": [2324.24, 2329.84], "text": " goes beyond just Western religions, this is all religions, East and West and South."}, {"timestamp": [2329.84, 2334.28], "text": " There's different expressions of it, but there is usually"}, {"timestamp": [2334.28, 2340.56], "text": " some kind of original sin or guilt or deep intrinsic flaws. The world that we"}, {"timestamp": [2340.56, 2349.56], "text": " live in exists in a state of decay or that we live in the profane world. And so the part of the promise of AI overlords and transhumanism is that"}, {"timestamp": [2349.56, 2357.28], "text": " we will transmute our existing broken flawed dystopia into utopia, into a"}, {"timestamp": [2357.28, 2362.52], "text": " perfect world, into heaven, into a paradise. So this is another thing to be"}, {"timestamp": [2362.52, 2369.12], "text": " cognizant of and some people have helpfully pointed this out in my videos. When I use the word utopia, that"}, {"timestamp": [2369.12, 2372.86], "text": " is basically saying we will achieve paradise, we will achieve heaven, and then"}, {"timestamp": [2372.86, 2376.32], "text": " all of our problems will go away. That's why it seems very loaded to"}, {"timestamp": [2376.32, 2381.1], "text": " some people, but I define utopia very simply as high standard of living, high"}, {"timestamp": [2381.1, 2385.44], "text": " individual liberty, and high social mobility."}, {"timestamp": [2385.44, 2391.16], "text": " But that being said, there is an idea out there, a mythic idea that at some point in"}, {"timestamp": [2391.16, 2397.22], "text": " your life and existence, you will be transformed into a perfect being where suffering goes"}, {"timestamp": [2397.22, 2404.36], "text": " away because you'll be taken to heaven or you'll complete your karmic cycle and you'll"}, {"timestamp": [2404.36, 2407.56], "text": " go to Shangri-La or whatever."}, {"timestamp": [2407.56, 2410.6], "text": " It is very natural to struggle with these mythic forces."}, {"timestamp": [2410.6, 2417.64], "text": " And what I'm saying is that cyberpunk dystopia is basically a reflection of the flawed, broken,"}, {"timestamp": [2417.64, 2422.96], "text": " and profane world that we live in today, which again, it was very, very deliberately stated"}, {"timestamp": [2422.96, 2427.0], "text": " in numerous religions and religious doctrines around the world,"}, {"timestamp": [2427.0, 2433.3], "text": " and that the promise of utopia and the promise of transhumanism is a salvation fantasy that we can escape"}, {"timestamp": [2433.3, 2437.0], "text": " the pain and anguish and suffering that we have today."}, {"timestamp": [2438.0, 2449.84], "text": " Another part, the most intensely personal part of transhumanism, is to escape self-loathing. And so basically when you look at the idea of original sin and state of decay and moral"}, {"timestamp": [2449.84, 2456.76], "text": " failures and whatever, the unconscious, the deeply unconscious psychological need is,"}, {"timestamp": [2456.76, 2462.4], "text": " I need to overcome all of my faults and failures and then one day, if I can transform, then"}, {"timestamp": [2462.4, 2465.64], "text": " I will be okay with myself.\" So this contempt for"}, {"timestamp": [2465.64, 2471.52], "text": " self, this self-loathing, is often learned from parents, families, and society. A lot"}, {"timestamp": [2471.52, 2477.6], "text": " of societies very deliberately codify shame and guilt. So shame and guilt are"}, {"timestamp": [2477.6, 2482.92], "text": " the way that self-loathing and contempt are cultivated. And so basically, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [2482.92, 2485.42], "text": " if you have parents that constantly tell you that you're not good"}, {"timestamp": [2485.42, 2492.62], "text": " enough or you have a society that treats you like you're not good enough or whatever, then"}, {"timestamp": [2492.62, 2497.8], "text": " you will ultimately have a sense of self-loathing or a sense of self-contempt."}, {"timestamp": [2497.8, 2503.96], "text": " And this is actually why Jesus is portrayed as all accepting and all tolerant."}, {"timestamp": [2503.96, 2506.04], "text": " Jesus loves you just the way you are."}, {"timestamp": [2506.04, 2508.76], "text": " The idea that this perfect mythic being out there"}, {"timestamp": [2508.76, 2512.58], "text": " will accept you with all of your faults, all of your flaws,"}, {"timestamp": [2512.58, 2515.18], "text": " because oh, by the way, God made you that way anyways."}, {"timestamp": [2515.18, 2517.0], "text": " This is how you're supposed to be."}, {"timestamp": [2517.0, 2520.76], "text": " So what I realized a while ago is that"}, {"timestamp": [2520.76, 2523.0], "text": " the mythic archetype of the savior,"}, {"timestamp": [2523.0, 2525.52], "text": " the bringer of salvation, the"}, {"timestamp": [2525.52, 2530.76], "text": " one who loves you anyways, is actually an embodiment of radical self-acceptance."}, {"timestamp": [2530.76, 2535.92], "text": " Which I'm not gonna say that like, oh you should just learn to accept your"}, {"timestamp": [2535.92, 2539.56], "text": " station in life and stop striving to be better. No, that's not what I'm saying at"}, {"timestamp": [2539.56, 2548.84], "text": " all. But it can be a useful psychological tool. But what I will say is that unless you do that inner work, unless you do that work of"}, {"timestamp": [2548.84, 2556.58], "text": " radical self-acceptance, of confronting and becoming okay with your flaws, of overcoming"}, {"timestamp": [2556.58, 2561.4], "text": " your self-loathing and your contempt for self, no matter how much perfection you attain through"}, {"timestamp": [2561.4, 2564.28], "text": " technology it will never be enough."}, {"timestamp": [2564.28, 2566.0], "text": " And this is what the Borg have."}, {"timestamp": [2566.0, 2572.12], "text": " So actually, in the Star Trek universe, the idea was that the Borg were actually discarded"}, {"timestamp": [2572.12, 2575.28], "text": " thousands of years ago because they were never good enough."}, {"timestamp": [2575.28, 2579.78], "text": " And because they were discarded by their creator, they were on this deep unconscious mission"}, {"timestamp": [2579.78, 2584.32], "text": " to attain perfection, because then one day they'll be worthy of their creator."}, {"timestamp": [2584.32, 2587.74], "text": " But in the Star Trek universe, their creators are long gone and they're still on this"}, {"timestamp": [2587.74, 2591.96], "text": " mission of perfection because they're chasing the dragon. They're chasing the"}, {"timestamp": [2591.96, 2595.92], "text": " dragon trying to overcome their self-loathing and self-contempt by"}, {"timestamp": [2595.92, 2602.16], "text": " becoming more perfect, but it will never ever be enough for the Borg. And that is"}, {"timestamp": [2602.16, 2608.3], "text": " the core message that I wanted to share today about AI overlords, about transhumanism,"}, {"timestamp": [2608.3, 2614.64], "text": " is that attaining perfection or utopia or whatever, yes, there is the technological"}, {"timestamp": [2614.64, 2617.36], "text": " aspect, but that alone will not be enough."}, {"timestamp": [2617.36, 2618.96], "text": " That will never be enough."}, {"timestamp": [2618.96, 2623.46], "text": " There is a tremendous amount of inner work, of archetypal work, of healing from those"}, {"timestamp": [2623.46, 2625.56], "text": " not good enough parents and the"}, {"timestamp": [2625.56, 2630.36], "text": " failures of society and everything else, every letdown, every disappointment that everyone"}, {"timestamp": [2630.36, 2637.2], "text": " has ever faced, this is also equally as important as the technology in order to attain a better"}, {"timestamp": [2637.2, 2639.16], "text": " future."}, {"timestamp": [2639.16, 2647.0], "text": " So quick recap, the AI dominatrix fantasy, whether it's Cortana or the joke shared at the beginning or the Borg Queen,"}, {"timestamp": [2647.0, 2651.0], "text": " this is basically a dark version of the perfect woman or the perfect mother."}, {"timestamp": [2651.0, 2656.0], "text": " It's all rooted very deeply in our evolution and unconscious,"}, {"timestamp": [2656.0, 2660.0], "text": " and it's all psychosexual stuff for all the reasons that I outlined earlier."}, {"timestamp": [2660.0, 2665.64], "text": " Basically, we cultivate an image of what the perfect man and perfect woman look"}, {"timestamp": [2665.64, 2669.0], "text": " like in our in our mind. It's an unconscious archetype that you can"}, {"timestamp": [2669.0, 2674.88], "text": " express consciously, but we usually just embed them in stories. The benevolent AI"}, {"timestamp": [2674.88, 2681.08], "text": " overlord would have to be like the the idea of the benevolent AI overlord is"}, {"timestamp": [2681.08, 2686.72], "text": " one similar to the idea of God, but also the idea of God is a synthesis of"}, {"timestamp": [2686.72, 2690.9], "text": " the perfect mother or perfect father archetypes."}, {"timestamp": [2690.9, 2698.16], "text": " And then finally, transhumanism and posthumanism is rooted in the need for a salvation fantasy,"}, {"timestamp": [2698.16, 2707.04], "text": " the idea that some external force is going to come along and make everything better one day, and or based, rooted in self-loathing,"}, {"timestamp": [2707.04, 2713.68], "text": " the idea that you have internalized some contempt, contempt for yourself, and that you believe"}, {"timestamp": [2713.68, 2719.56], "text": " that you need to transform yourself in order to be accepted, which is the opposite of the"}, {"timestamp": [2719.56, 2729.76], "text": " truth, is that radical self-acceptance is actually the way that you achieve that. Now that being said, what I do want to do is say that I am all for, you know, doing"}, {"timestamp": [2729.76, 2735.32], "text": " experiments and directing human evolution. Up to this point a lot of"}, {"timestamp": [2735.32, 2740.56], "text": " people have talked about like, oh well, you know, if we start manipulating the"}, {"timestamp": [2740.56, 2744.48], "text": " genes of our embryos then they're going, you know, then that's us playing"}, {"timestamp": [2744.48, 2746.22], "text": " God and taking over evolution."}, {"timestamp": [2746.22, 2750.82], "text": " I absolutely believe that that is the way to go and it's kind of the direction that we're going already."}, {"timestamp": [2751.16, 2754.66], "text": " Because one thing that a lot of people don't know is that you can genetically screen"}, {"timestamp": [2756.18, 2762.34], "text": " embryos, basically, I think it's at like what four weeks or whatever or eight weeks, you can start to screen,"}, {"timestamp": [2762.72, 2767.8], "text": " genetically screen embryos and then you can decide to have a selective abortion"}, {"timestamp": [2767.8, 2769.16], "text": " because it's like, oh, hey,"}, {"timestamp": [2769.16, 2772.0], "text": " this embryo actually has some known genetic problems,"}, {"timestamp": [2772.0, 2774.34], "text": " so let's not go through with this."}, {"timestamp": [2774.34, 2779.22], "text": " And so just by virtue of measuring and eliminating problems,"}, {"timestamp": [2779.22, 2782.02], "text": " we are already directing our own evolution."}, {"timestamp": [2782.02, 2783.08], "text": " So what's the difference"}, {"timestamp": [2783.08, 2788.64], "text": " if you direct it a little bit more deliberately by creating transgenic babies? They're still gonna be"}, {"timestamp": [2788.64, 2793.36], "text": " fundamentally human. It's not like, you know, it's not like a tank-bred baby is"}, {"timestamp": [2793.36, 2798.52], "text": " gonna look like a level 3 Guild Navigator in 20 years. That's not what"}, {"timestamp": [2798.52, 2802.28], "text": " we're doing. They're still fundamentally human. So again, that's not really"}, {"timestamp": [2802.28, 2809.56], "text": " transhumanism. That is just steering evolution now, which a lot of people have a very like visceral gross reaction to."}, {"timestamp": [2809.56, 2814.28], "text": " And I think this video will help a lot of people understand why the idea"}, {"timestamp": [2814.28, 2819.12], "text": " of transhumanism and guiding human evolution really kind of grosses some"}, {"timestamp": [2819.12, 2823.28], "text": " people out at a deep level. It's because the idea that like, wait you're telling"}, {"timestamp": [2823.28, 2826.0], "text": " me that I'm not good enough as I am,"}, {"timestamp": [2830.56, 2834.72], "text": " that kind of thing really kind of triggers some people. And that's a perfectly healthy reaction. I'm not saying that being triggered by the idea of post-humanism is a bad thing. I'm saying that"}, {"timestamp": [2834.72, 2841.84], "text": " that is a very natural reaction and it's actually a healthy reaction. On the other side, the desire"}, {"timestamp": [2841.84, 2846.0], "text": " for transhumanism, the desire for postthumanism, that is also an understandable"}, {"timestamp": [2846.0, 2853.04], "text": " and healthy reaction to the flaws and faults and failures of your family, of society, of"}, {"timestamp": [2853.04, 2856.64], "text": " technology, of the false promises that we've all been made."}, {"timestamp": [2856.64, 2860.96], "text": " So what I'm saying is that both sides are right and that there's a lot of nuance to"}, {"timestamp": [2860.96, 2861.96], "text": " it."}, {"timestamp": [2861.96, 2863.84], "text": " So anyways, thanks for watching."}, {"timestamp": [2863.84, 2866.32], "text": " I hope you got a lot out of this and make it so."}, {"timestamp": [2861.35, 2863.13], "text": " there's a lot of nuance to it."}, {"timestamp": [2863.13, 2865.25], "text": " So anyways, thanks for watching."}, {"timestamp": [2865.25, 2867.75], "text": " I hope you got a lot out of this and make it so."}]}