{"text": " All right. Hey, everybody. David Shapiro here with a very special podcast interview. Today we're speaking with Mike Tadasco, a super interesting guy. I think this is probably the third or fourth time I've talked with you, Mike. And just every time I do, it's like I feel so good about like everything that I'm doing and everything that everyone is working on. And so I just wanted to share that excitement with the world. So thank you so much for being here. Thank you, David. We should have recorded the first three. Yes, like with Einstein. Seriously, we end up talking for an hour every time and it's so engaging. So I just wanted to reproduce that and share it with the world. So Mike is, like I said, super interesting guy. Would you mind just telling the audience just a little bit about kind of where you come from and what you've done? Just kind of get us prime the pump, so to speak. Sure, yeah, no, thanks, David. Look, my 60 seconds, I was born and raised in the suburbs of Chicago, kind of grew up as a child in the 80s, collecting comic books and sports cards and things like that, and eventually put my way through college doing that. When I left college and entered the real world, I started off as an accountant, and I was probably the world's worst accountant in many ways. Moved on to the very sexy industry known as paper manufacturing. So literally, and this was right at the time of like the office, so I couldn't tell you the amount of like nondermethylene jokes I heard over time. So I couldn't tell you the amount of like nondermethylene jokes I heard over time But I learned a lot of like interesting things in a in a very old Arcade industry and and just have tons of insights from there. I actually left to get an MBA started a e-commerce company after that I'm selling the original artwork called sketch ma. And after doing that for a few years, I joined PayPal and I was at PayPal for 10 and a half years before leaving recently, doing a lot of things in product and for the last five running their innovation org. Excellent. Yeah, I mean, such a fascinating background and so many people come to technology and today AI from just such a diverse background. I want to pick your brain about like, what was it like being the world's worst accountant and then switching to paper and then switching to like, what was that choice? Because I mean, obviously like going back and getting an MBA, like it sounds like you might've just realized like, man, I took a wrong turn, I need to backtrack. Is that kind of what happened? Yeah, I mean, look, part of it, I mean, specifically on the MBA was we had, I was living in Ohio when I got out of school and that's where I met my wife and we had an opportunity to move out to California, which was awesome. And so when we moved out here, it was for her job. I continued to work for my company. I was working remote for my company back in Ohio. And frankly, I didn't know anybody out here. And going back to school and getting an MBA was frankly my way to meet people. I was able to do it through my employers. I was doing it part-time while I was there, but it was just a way to meet people and network and all of that wonderful stuff as part of the process. I'll pause there because I think David died. Hey there, there you go. I finished my sentence but then I was like, uh-oh, is this going to be, I think it's still recording through all of it. I closed the wrong tab, I apologize. I was trying to reduce distractions and then I reduced all of the distractions to zero. So no, it should still be recording and if not, we'll clean it up. It seems to record through the whole thing and like I said, I kind of just finished the thought on coming out and doing my MBA to meet people. Excellent. Excellent. Yeah. So you used it to meet people, to get ahead, to stand out in the crowd. And clearly it worked. You were able to do a e-commerce platform, SketchMaven, and then eventually to PayPal. But you said that there was some interesting things that you learned at SketchMaven. So what are some stories from your first e-commerce venture? Yeah, so SketchMaven was something, look, I'm recommending this for everybody. Like, just have an ideologue that you keep. I've been doing this since I was at least in undergrad. I'm 45 now. So, like, this is a long time I've been just kind of keeping a list of ideas that I have and ideas for whatever. Because, like, you never want a good idea or a bad idea go to waste. And every good idea starts as a bad idea. And I just remember one time, as a kid kid I went to comic and baseball card and sports card conventions selling stuff. I would be a dealer and so forth. I remember going to this one convention, boy, early 90s or something and seeing an artist there and the artist had a cover of a Green Lantern comic book that I really liked. And to give you background on this, so at least back in the day before things went digital, every comic book you have ever seen in your life came from a hand-drawn piece of artwork. Even though that comic book may have been viewed by millions of people multiple times, there is only one original from which that came. And so it creates this really unique problem where for every comic book piece of artwork that has ever existed, there's one and only one of them, but there are millions and tens of millions of these pages and covers and so forth of that. So this is a very unique problem in that space. And when I was a kid and saw this cover, I was like, oh, you know, it was $150, I think it was. I'm like, I didn't quite have that money. I had some decent money. I was selling a lot of stuff, but I didn't have 150 bucks to blow on a piece of artwork, you know, when I'm like 13 years old or something, especially back in the nineties. So when I was fast forward, I'm an accountant, I'm actually making real money out there in the workforce. And so I was like, it just dawned on me. I'm like, well, I should go buy that thing. Go on eBay, can't find it. Go on all these other places, can't find it. I don't know where this thing is. I don't know where it is. And that's the reality when there's only one of something in the world. It's really hard to find where that thing is. And when there's, like I said, millions of these ones. Well then like that's sort of an interesting problem. And that's what birthed the concept for SketchMaven. It was a very structured marketplace where people could buy and sell and even say that they want and desire certain pieces of original comic book art. I started the business in 2009. And you know, it was a marketplace, like, because most of these things were being sold on eBay at the time. And I think even today, in very many ways, they still are. Some artists had their own sites and so forth, but there was nowhere to find it. If I wanted to tell the world I wanted this Green Lantern cover, there was no way to actually do so. And so this was an idea I had 10 years prior. 2009, I'm going through my idea file and I'm like, oh, that's interesting. I wonder if anyone's done that. Lo and behold, not. And I'm like, well, maybe this is something that I should build. I don't really care about the Green Lantern cover anymore, to be completely honest. But the concept still held true true. I felt that if this could work for a niche that I understood like original comic art, well, it could definitely work for other things. Like pens and collectible shoes and sneakers and things like that. Where I felt that they were vastly underserved by eBay and other sites at the time. And in some ways that thesis proved out, you know, there's Goats and StockX and so forth that now do that and choose. It's probably about five years too early as those launched, you know, much later. But, you know, as I was building the site, it was my first experience ever building something. I was on Upwork, which was known as Odesk at the time. I was hiring people, everything from PR people to engineers and so forth. I was just figuring out stuff myself. This was even before like Braintree and Stripe, mind you. So I remember like having engineers work and help build the sites and a few days before launch and I look and I'm going through the checkout myself and I'm like, there's no little lock icon in the, for the shopping cart when people are entering their credit card information. And again, this is like Stripe took care of that. Like you don't even need to worry about that anymore. 2009, that was a problem. And I'm like, oh, God, I didn't write that in the spec document for the engineers to actually say, yes, this needs to be secure, and so on and so forth. And so was all of these fun things. So it was an amazing two year ride that had to deal, you know, happy customers, unhappy customers, hackers, all this wonderful stuff that I learned about in my two years there. Excellent. Yeah, I mean, so, I mean, there's so much to unpack there because like, you know, you had an idea file, you came back to it after 10 years, right? And that probably, especially for some of the younger audience members who are just getting into, you know, just cutting their teeth on AI and startups and stuff, just the idea of, you jot all this stuff down. Do you have any, like, let's start there. Like, do you have any pro tips on keeping ideas? You said all good ideas start as bad ideas. And in this case, there was something that you wanted, right? That was kind of the genesis of this, but then like, then we'll unpack some of the lessons learned, but let's start there with the ideas, the brainstorming. How did you decide that this was something you were gonna build? Oh, how did I decide it was something I was gonna build? Because it intrigued me. I mean, again, I remember this, I remember being a kid and seeing this. And then I remember writing it down 10 years later, and then 10 years, give or take, after that, going back and saying, Oh, I'm sure somebody has already done that. Like, like that was my gut reaction. I'm like, Oh, I'm sure this exists. This is a no brainer. This has to exist in the world. Doing a little bit of research and be like, huh, it doesn't. And again, mind you, just because something already exists in the world, doesn't mean that you shouldn't do your own version of it I want to be really really clear You know Google was the 30th 40th major search engine that launched It was and plenty of people said like why does the world need another search engine? They just you know using page rank and other things They just had a better and more more innovative way of doing things. So just because something exists doesn't mean you shouldn't. But to me, that was just a really interesting tell, and a way of just saying, oh, this is something I like. This is something I'm passionate about. I want to go through this ride, and I should just go on and do more analysis. And I remember then going to conventions, talking to artists, talking to collectors, just talking to people like, hey, how are you buying stuff? I knew people were using eBay. I knew people were using like a site called Comic Art Fans and others and just doing the research, seeing what's out there and just doing a lot of deep customer work and just asking a lot of questions. And from that, you start to formulate what the solution is. And there's one thing I've learned in ideating and building out a business, it's don't fall in love with your idea, fall in love with your customer. I mean, that's really important for people to know because your idea is going to change. And to my fault, when I was first building this, I probably didn't change enough. I didn't pivot enough. I probably didn't listen to customers enough. I mean, I was doing it some, like, I feel I'm much wiser now and wouldn't make that same mistake. But I think that's a really big thing. And from there, you just keep iterating and just figure out, like, okay, well, what are the hard things for me to do? The hard thing for me in this was building out the website, because I had never done that. And like I said, this was before, like, even, oh, gosh, I even remember, one of the reasons I ultimately took a job at PayPal in 2011 was because PayPal saved my butt in 2009. I actually remember I did a credit card processing. Originally, I signed up with an account through Costco. Avalon, I think was the name of the processor at the time, signed up ready to go. And then all of a sudden, like three weeks before launch, they reached out to me like, is this a marketplace? Yeah, we don't do marketplaces. And I'm like, what? Did I tell you that? Like, I don't know what happened. Like I didn't even take $1 of payments. I was already paying them 30 bucks a month. And they're like, yeah, nevermind. We don't do you. You're too risky to us. And then frankly, I knew, I had some friends at PayPal. They're like, yeah, yeah, we'll take care of you. Don't worry. And they saved my butt. And that's why I knew I had some friends at PayPal. They're like, yeah, yeah, we'll take care of you. Don't worry. And they saved my butt. And that's why I think two years later as being a merchant for PayPal's credit card processing, I was like, oh, this was a very logical place for me to enter the next part of my journey. But yeah, I'm sorry, I went on a little side rant there. You're good. Like, hopefully that still gets to the root of the question. I think when you're ideating, again, you want as big of a funnel in the beginning as possible. You want as many ideas as possible. And you want to just then give it some time, get away from those ideas, then come back to them a day, a week, 10 years later, whatever it is, and see what resonates. See what still holds true, and then you start to do the research and analysis. Absolutely. You know, as a fledgling, you know, startup, tech startup guy myself, everything that you said is what people tell me, it's what I read, but the way that you said it, one thing that you said really stood out to me, which was don't fall in love with your product or your idea, fall in love with your customer. And that I think is so critical and so important. And I realized as soon as you said it, you're absolutely right. Because one of the things that I'm working on is AutoMuse, which is for writers. And it's like, this is for writers. I have ideas about what I want to build, but no, I did exactly what you said, which is I talked to writers, screenplay writers. I've talked to actors now, all kinds of stuff, but I don't want to make this about me. I just wanted to agree and reinforce that point. Sorry, just one last thing on that. For anybody who wants to go deeper into this, I will give a plug. Adobe had created an open source, something called Kickbox. And so for anybody can go to kickbox.org. It's totally, it's open source, it's free. Anyone can download it. It is kind of a way to go from ideation to business launch. When I worked at PayPal, we actually took a version, we modified it and used it internally as well. And it is an amazing tool that anyone can use. And I probably take that quote directly from Kickbox. So I do wanna give due credit to them, but that's a great tool if anybody does wanna go deeper into like, how do you do this? How do you really make it so you fall in love with your customer and not get too focused on your specific solution? Excellent. Perfect. Yeah. And thanks for that. Sharing that resource. We'll have to unpack that a little bit later too, if we get back around to it. So one thing that you mentioned just a few minutes ago while building SketchMaven was, you know, there's the little snafu around payments, you've had happy customers, unhappy customers, and then, you know, writing specs for engineers and kind of forgetting a few things here and there. So what were some of the interesting stories or lessons learned about, like, you know, kind of doing everything yourself or pulling it all together and just kind of, you know, things that you learned the hard way, I guess, is the way to ask it. Yeah, I mean, look, I think so many people I talk to, I'm not technical, again, I started as an accountant. I understand technology fairly well and I've always been fascinated by it, but, you know, I wasn't technical per se. And I remember so many people I was meeting with like, hey, you need a technical co-founder. And I was going to school up here at Berkeley at the time. So there's a lot of technical people up there, getting my MBA. And I actually remember interviewing a bunch of people. I wanted somebody with the technical chops, kind of the passion for the space. And there was one other thing I was looking for. But basically, passion for space was the one thing we had in common. And then they were trying to plug gaps where I had deficiencies. That's what you want in your co-founder. And I really, I think I was being too picky, like with hindsight, like I was looking for the perfect person. I interviewed a bunch of people. I was, you know, very conscious. I'm like, ah, I can do it myself. Like I got this, I could be a solopreneur. I don't need to raise venture money right now for this. Like I'm gonna go off and do this thing on my own. So, you know, I think mistake number one was not doing that because as I had mentioned, I had a bunch of people on Upwork that were building this site and you know even though I didn't put that in the specs that's hey you're building a checkout you need to make sure it's secure so on and so forth it should have been known like any decent engineering team would have like kind of called that out and said like, hey, I don't see this in the specs. Are you sure that is right? Because every checkout we've ever done, like, no. And, you know, I wasn't paying that much money because I didn't look, I was funding this out of my own pocket. I didn't have a lot of money to do that. But any great CTO would have caught these things much earlier. And even if they weren't doing the engineering work themselves, they would have, you know, or only a portion of it and they would have been able to manage it much, much tighter. So at some point, you know, the site was getting decent traction, decent, not great, but decent and maybe about six months out. So most of my focus at that time at post-launch was on marketing activities and things like that. That's where you wanna be. You wanna be in growth mode. How do I make our customers happy? How do we get more inventory on the site? Within a marketplace, do you always want the balance between buyers and sellers to be somewhat in line? Because they're always gonna be a little bit out of whack and it's sort of hard to keep that in balance as you're moving forward. But about six months in, I remember waking up one morning and going out to the site like, well, a bunch of new people signed up. And I'm like, the hell are these people? And then that's when I realized, I'm like, oh, these are legit accounts. These are bots. These are spam like, like, the site's getting hacked. Like, and there's there's some, there's some interesting things ever going on. There are some seeds and so forth. There are malicious code where I personally had to roll some stuff back on the site. I don't think it was built very securely and God knows what we're doing with people's credit card information and so forth on this thing with hindsight. So all of that said, like, it was a bit of a mess. And I went from spending, you know, 10, 20% of my time worried about security, IT infrastructure to, you know, 80, 90%. And when you're trying to grow a business, that's not where you want to be. The one silver lining, I give so much credit to my sister-in-law for just reframing my thinking on this. I remember seeing her and the rest of the family over the holidays and being just kind of really depressed, like, oh gosh, I'm doing this. And all of a sudden, there's all these hackers on there and all forth. And her response to me was, well, at least you built a site that was important enough for them to hack. And I'm like, okay. There is a silver lining in that. If it really was, you know, at the very beginning, they weren't hacking it and so forth. So like there's somebody in Russia or wherever it was, who was truly taking the time to do this. So that was an interesting silver lining to put on all this. But just the amount of time I spent on that where it could have been on growth, it was just such a lack of focus. And I think it really started to kind of derail where the business could have been going. That makes sense. Yeah, and yeah, you know, like success is a double-edged sword, right? Like the more popular you are or the more well-known, the bigger of a target you are for any number of things, right? Or was it Sergey Brin said, success breeds litigation? Yes. Yes. You know, or in this case, Russian hackers is what it attracts. That's right. That's right. Exactly. Definitely an apocryphal or not apocryphal allegorical story about how important it is to have security done right. But as you mentioned earlier, there's a lot of services like Stripe that makes these things just out of the box much more secure and much safer. So I guess I have two directions I want to go and I'll let you pick which one we go first. So in terms of where the industry is today, you know, the tools that are available, the platforms that are available, alternatively you did mention like a CTO could have helped you catch this. So I'll let you pick path A or path B, which do you want to talk about first? Oh, like basically you're saying if I were to recreate this site today, how would I do it? What would I do differently? Yeah, if you had all the tools today, you were 10 years younger and had all the lessons though, what would you do differently? I don't think I'd hire a CTO. I know I gave this whole speech basically saying how like, oh, that was the biggest mistake. I think at the time it was the biggest mistake. And look, I wouldn't say I wouldn't hire a CTO, but I would say it's not required to have a CTO because you're absolutely right. Between to have a CTO because you're absolutely right. Between all of the services, there's some fairly good no-code solutions out there as well. And I was getting a little bit into the code myself. So I was able to tweak things here or there where there wasn't like a CMS solution. I was able to kind of figure things out. It was all built in PHP. And I was able to do a lot with that, but for security with Stripe or Braintree and other products like that, it's never been easier to start a website today. And so I think you could probably build that site that I had created for 15, 20% of the cost of what it cost me to do that in probably a half the time, if not even less. The other is probably gonna be a little bit of engineering support that you would need to maybe integrate some pieces. But for the most part, you could have this amazing, secure system built with the existing tools that are out there today. Excellent. Yeah, like, and so I think that that's just such a fascinating, you know, point, which is, you know, if there are folks out there with, you know, historical, you know, like me, I'm talking with people, I'm reading books, I'm reading blog posts, watching videos, but things are changing, things are different today than even they were 10 years ago or five years ago. And so, just thanks for that perspective. I had a thought, but it ran off. Let's see. Looking at my notes. Oh, yeah.. So kind of rewinding a little bit, you had some interesting stories of your time at PayPal, specifically as a leader of innovation. So would you mind walking us through some of the stuff that you did at PayPal and what you learned about innovation in the tech space while you were there? Absolutely. Yeah. Look, I spent 10 and a half amazing years at PayPal. So as SketchMaven, the business, the marketplace I was running was not kind of succeeding. I actually, my wife, I had our first kid and it's kind of like, is this really what I want to be doing? I'm like, I kind of need a, I need to rethink about what I'm doing and get a steady paycheck, have money flowing in instead of flowing out for a while. Where should I go work? I live in San Jose, biking distance away from PayPal's headquarters. And I had a bunch of friends that were there. I was a customer of it. I always liked... I signed up back when they were bribing you with money in the year 2000. As a consumer, you know, like literally, that was PayPal's when, you know, for people who don't know the story, one of the reasons why PayPal got to the scale it did, is because they were such flush, they were so flush with venture money. And they needed to build network effects for this to be effective buyers and sellers. So they were just giving and at one point it was up to 20 bucks a person just for signing up for an account. I think I got in around $10 when when I first got my PayPal account. But I was like I was a longtime customer. And from my class at Berkeley, I literally knew 10 people that were working there. And they all talked really favorably. So 2011 rolls around, I'm looking for a job. I see this opportunity pop open on the mobile team at PayPal and I'm like, oh, mobile has a future, which was a, I know now that sounds like, okay, of course, Mike, mobile has a future in 2022 when you're looking back at that. But in 2011, even this was a few years after the iPhone still, there was some real traction, but there was still a lot of skepticism. Just a tiny, tiny portion of transactions were being done at mobile devices, even at that time. Even in a company like PayPal, I would have bet it was way under 1% of total payment volume was on mobile devices back in 2010, 2011. And so I had a really, I was like, well, let me go interview. Basically my interview at PayPal was talking about nothing but failures than I had at SketchMaven. And because that was my only tech experience. And look, I was very open. I was talking about like what I learned. I was very candid. Another pro interview tip that I'll give to anybody is actually listen to the earnings. If you're ever interviewing at a public company, whether you are going for a finance role or an engineer or a lawyer or whatever, listen to the earnings call beforehand because 98% of employees don't listen to earnings calls. And if you listen to an earnings call, you will hear directly from the CEO and CFO and others in the company, what they really care about, what are the pressing things. And you will actually have in some way more insight than the other people that you're talking to. And just by doing that painful couple hour exercise, maybe listen to the last two earnings calls, you will have a whole new insight that it will almost be like a superpower that you will have. Just being able to kind of talk about some of these things that the person working there is like, whole new insight that it will almost be like a superpower that you will have. Just being able to kind of talk about some of these things that the person working there is like, how did you know about that? Well, it's a public company, it's on the earnings call. So anyway, pro tip for anybody interviewing. But yeah, so whatever reason they gave me a job I was dangerously unqualified for in analytics. And it was an amazing ride there. I had job after job that I was completely not qualified for, but I just wanted to try things out. I was always ambitious. I always wanted to do what's best for the customer, what's best for the team, even if it wasn't in my job description. And I think I'm in some ways, maybe I've built up a little bit of a reputation for doing that within the company. And fast forward a few years, we were splitting from eBay. So at the time I joined PayPal was actually owned by eBay. 2015, Carl Icahn comes in, buys up a bunch of eBay stock saying, hey, you are going to be worth more separates. And, you know, eBay management fights it, fights it, fights it. And finally, one day we come into work and say, never mind, we're going to split into two companies. Like, whoa, that's weird. So when that happens, PayPal has to create all these functions and so forth. And I was doing a lot of things which we could get to in a bit that were pretty innovative and related to innovation and had a just really unique opportunity to kind of create a very small innovation function but be innovation function for what the new company was going to be. And so that's kind of how I got involved in innovation at PayPal. And that was like my last five, six years there was all within that same job, kind of defining what innovation, the culture of innovation for the company, looking at new products and new technologies that are emerging and really working with employees across the company on building all that stuff out. Wonderful, wonderful story. Yeah, and it sounds like it was just a really fascinating time. Like, you know, I've learned, I learned a couple, a couple interesting things. Like I had, I didn't, I did not know that Carl Icahn was the one who came in and said, let's split this up. And that, you know, cause you'd think like from an outsider perspective, like eBay is this big, powerful tech company, like why would they allow this to be spun out? But it was like, someone outsider perspective, like eBay is this big powerful tech company, like why would they allow this to be spun out? But it was like someone else said, no, if you grow apart, you can be more valuable. So that I mean, that in and of itself is a little bit innovative. But one thing I will say is Carl Icahn was right. Like, I mean, it's like, you know, as much as we don't like to give credit to, you know, and often deservedly so, to like financial corporate raider types and so forth, he was absolutely right. Like when it splits, when it was clear that was happening, like PayPal is now, I don't know what it is exactly, probably worth at least double what eBay is. At one point it was way more, but things have all been kind of trending down. But like, I think that was, it was pretty clear that both companies, I think, were actually stronger being able to focus on these different things. And PayPal could actually, as they just have done, can do things with Amazon and so forth. When it was part of eBay, it really couldn't do that. eBay has even done things for their own payment systems and so forth. So each company now operates truly independently years later. So yes, Carl Icahn was right. Yeah, sorry. Excellent. Yeah, no, great, great story and great point. Like you never know how things are going to turn out and lessons learned, you move on and it sounds like both benefited. That's not always the case, of course. That's not always the case, of course. But you said that you spent the last five years or so at PayPal focusing on innovation. And a couple of things that you mentioned that you did to focus on that was you talked to people a lot across the whole organization, probably outside of the organization too. And you worked in the mobile space. So if you could, like paint us a picture for me and the audience, if someone wants to be innovative or be in that space, what is the mindset you need? What are the behaviors you need? Like, just like, let's take a deep dive into the innovative brain and from your perspective. Oh, I love this. This is where I really enjoy talking. So what does the innovative brain look like? The innovative brain first and foremost is just really curious. It is constantly asking why. It is the brain in many ways of a six-year-old. Just like, why does that work that way? Why is it that we, you know, you know, like, why do some clothes have tags on it but other ones are printed on? Is it a cost thing? Is it whatever? Just being naturally curious about everything that you see out there in the world. And then, you know, so part, and I had mentioned before, like, you want a big funnel of ideas, because you never know what is going to hit. Thomas Edison, I love to talk about Thomas Edison, like, you know, he has like 1100 patents that he had, and we know incandescent light bulb and phonograph and all those things that are kind of famous now. If you go down the long tail of those patents, and mind you, these are the things that they actually were granted patents by the USPTO. We're not even seeing the ideas that were rejected, that never even, they're like, oh, this is ridiculous, don't file on it. When you start to go down the long tail of patents that Edison has, there's one specifically. Anybody could go out there and Google, like, Thomas Edison baby doll. And you will see, like, he built this talking, have you seen this, David? Yeah, it's so creepy. The talking, choreographed baby doll. And this thing is horrific. It is, like, it's evil. It is, like, and it has, like, this weird wax cylinder thing that you play, and it's supposed to talk to a kid. And it's, like, what the, it is the most god awful thing. And you're, like, oh, yeah, that's the light bulb guy. But you know what? like, who knows what that led to, like, again, I mean, he's just always thinking of ideas, and they're not all going to be, they're not all gonna be home runs, but like, when you're coming up with ideas, the first thing to I'm gonna use a baseball, another baseball analogy here, but like, you, it batting average does not matter. Like that is not what matters. So batting average does not matter. Like that is not what matters. So batting average for everyone. So in baseball, you come up to the plate, you wanna hit the ball, get it into play and get on base. That is called a hit. All the times you don't do that is called an out, relatively speaking. So if you're a great baseball player, 30% of the time, you're going to be able to get a hit of the times you're out there. If you're a bad baseball player, 20% of the time or even 25% necessarily to do that. But that's not the game that's being played here. Nobody cares about that statistic in the world of innovation. All that we care about is home runs and grand slams. Like when you like basically hit it so hard it goes out of the entire stadium type stuff. That is what matters. And so to do that, if that is what is being measured, do we care if you did it in three at bats or 3000 at bats? If all that we're measuring for is home runs and we just want that's the only thing that we care about. Well, it doesn't actually matter how many times it took to do that. So that is something that is really even when I had my first innovation job, it was something with with my own manager at the time was something I really had to hammer home of like, we want to actually reward how many times people step up to the plate. So we, you know, and I'm just gonna, it's not the only thing, but I'm gonna use patents as a proxy. So within PayPal, the year before I joined, and again, we were part of eBay, so we had to parse it out. I don't know, we maybe had three, 400 people submit patent ideas, you know, that were potentially patentable. The first year I joined, I think we did like three or 4,000. So it was like literally 10xing that. And this was just trying to push this in the culture. Now, was the quality of those ideas better than the year before? In aggregate, no. I mean, there are probably many more worse ideas in there. But again, that's not what mattered. We wanted people just stepping up to the plate because you didn't know what kind of ridiculous idea might become something. I always joke, one inventor who kept on putting ideas for like edible silverware and things like that. What does that have to do with PayPal or anything? Nothing. But was that an acceptable idea for us to accept? Yes. Yes. Because it's just going through the ideation process. Because we want, okay, that doesn't, here's some feedback on that. Now iterate, improve, get better in the process and so forth. So step one for innovation, be curious about the world, learn about the world, ask questions about the world. Step two is just come up with ideas and couple up with as many as possible. And it doesn't mean you have to be submitting these ideas anywhere. There are some great sites like that, like notepad.com is a great one where you can just put like idea lists and things like that. I have used that for sure in the past Um, mostly I just put things into an evernote actually a whole Folder of evernote files I have and i'm like these are book ideas. These are business ideas. These are movie ideas I don't even know what these ideas are, but they're still ideas. And those are kind of all the buckets I have. And I just build that out. And then when you're comfortably removed from those ideas, kind of take a step back and re-approach them and see which ones resonate with you. And most likely what is going to happen is that not any one idea is going to resonate, but you're going to happen is that not any one idea is going to resonate, but you're going to see value in connecting ideas. That this movie idea that you had, if you added it to this business idea, holy cow, that's really interesting. What if you actually combine these? We used to do a trick when I had the innovation lab at PayPal where we would have people just write down ideas and topics, throw it into a hat on little scraps of paper, and then people would just pull out two of them at a time. And we're like, okay, given these two things, what can we make out of it? And we're going to spend five minutes on this. We're going to brainstorm this, and then we're going to throw these away, and somebody's going to pick out two more random things. And it's just an old technique to be able to apply, again, so much of innovation is just taking two unrelated things and making it into something related, something powerful, something that no one has ever thought of before. And that's just one little hack to do that. Wonderful. Thanks so much for that deep dive into the innovative mindset. And so queuing off of that, let's fast forward to today. And of course we're in a, hopefully a golden age of innovation with things like generative AI, large language models, that sort of stuff. So what do you see that's happening today? What has caught your attention in terms of innovations and what do you think it means in terms of technology or business or even the way that we live? Yeah, I think the world is going to change more now than at any other point in my life. I was fortunate enough to start the University of Illinois in 1995, just as the Netscape team was there building the browser and so forth and all the things that came from that. I had never used the internet in my life before I got to college. I got there and I had never used the internet in my life before I got to college. I got there and literally my first day, I'm like, what the hell is this? I don't understand this. I don't even know what this is, but this is amazing. There's all these weird little, there's words and if I click on an underlying word, it will take me somewhere else where I could learn more about that word. Or sometimes I click and it's like, what is that what is that it's hyperlinked with that like I had no knowledge of any of this stuff and joining like when I was at such a time where I was open to new learnings and memories like it was clear to me probably within a few weeks and this is going to change the world and with what is happening today in AI and generative AI, like this is, I feel as giddy now as I was when I was 18 years old and learning about these things and just seeing what is possible. Let me, David, if I can, let me just give my first experience I ever had with GPT-3. So one of the things I've done is last year, yeah, so it'd been 2000 and, I'm sorry, 2021, I went back and started to get an MFA in writing. Always been passionate about writing. I read like 50 books a year. And I'm always like, yeah, I could do that. But when I grew up, I was more of a science and math kid. And English was kind of deemphasized. And I was kind of always afraid of that and everything. But I'm like, do you know what? I'm going to do this. I want to really learn how to become a great writer. When I was there, it was pretty clear to me like where I had a competitive advantage was combining like my technical background and know-how with this writing skill that I'm building. And I very quickly became focused on, well, how can I use AI to do that? So I used GPT-3 for the first time on a writing project, which I fully disclosed, and I love to get into disclosures and things like that. But for the very first class I was taking, I was writing a little, almost kind of like an audio drama sketch comedy type thing with all these little skits all about the presidents. I'm a total nerd. Like, yes, I was writing audio sketch comedy about the presidents and had all these little sketches and so forth. And one of them I wanted to write was about the president of the future. And it kind of dawned on me, I'm like, oh, what better way to do present of the future than to actually have an AI write part of that. So I remember I took in and I disclosed every single bit of what I did in my writing. I took the first two lines from Obama's second inaugural address. And I think I added maybe three lines of my own so it's kind of five minutes or sorry five sentences of material to start and and I kind of hit just hit go and just to see what would happen and I remember just being amazed. I'm like, oh my god, it's Recognizing that this is a presidential speech. It is kind of carrying on the same cadence It is like recognizing that it is a computer that is writing this at some point in the future Like it is carrying this on and it was doing it in ways that I never would have imagined And I remember like going through this exercise and so many times like my wife was working upstairs I think the kids were in bed already. I'm just running upstairs. I'm like, look at this, look at this. I didn't write this. I was so excited. So I was just enamored by what was coming out of this thing. And I kept doing it. And, you know, and it actually, it was a little bit glitchy too, but I'm like, well, this is perfect. Like that's an angle that I never even thought of. Like, what if giving the inaugural AI computer president is glitchy? I did this whole speech and used text to voice type program to do that and boom, I made that. That was my first time using GPT-3. it was incredible. And so after that, I've just been like, that to me is the same moments where I clicked on a link on my first day of college and it took me somewhere else. Like it was just completely, my mind was blown and I'm like, this is going to change everything. Fast forward a year plus to where we're at today, like good God, with like the things that we could do with Chad GPT, like I was literally with like the things that we can do with chat GPT. Like I was literally just talking to my kid in the car this morning. My kid does a podcast on a game called Brawl Stars. He's 11, he does this. I'm like, why don't you interview chat GPT for your podcast about Brawl Stars? And he's like, you can do that? I'm like, sure, like, do that. We can do this together. And like, you can do that? I'm like, sure, like, do that. We can do this together. And like, you're going to have this whole interview, I'm sure just putting chat GPT in the title of your podcast is going to get you a bunch more clicks and everything. I'm like, wow. And so that's going to be his project this afternoon. There's just so much that can be done here. And we're just, just scratching the surface of this. So like, that's why like, this is going, I truly, truly believe what we're going to see with AI and generative consumer-friendly AI is going to be more transformative, I believe, than the internet itself was. Absolutely. Yeah, I believe that. I feel that. And just hearing your perspective, first time using web browsers, seeing the internet, and it's 1995, so fast forward more than 20 years. Imagine where we'll be in 20 years. So I have a few follow-up questions regarding, obviously, no one can predict the future. Like, you know, one of the stories that you told me about PayPal was the first time someone bought a car with PayPal Mobile. You couldn't have predicted that from the invention of the iPhone, right? But then, in hindsight, it is kind of obvious. So could you tell us a little bit about that story in terms of combining new ideas and innovating and what can you predict, what can't you predict? And what do you see, I guess what's the low hanging fruit with generative AI? How do you think it's gonna change first and in an optimistic future, what's gonna be the good timeline of progress? Yeah, yeah, and then we can get into the evil timeline later as well. So to tell the story, I remember back when I joined in 2011, mobile was still kind of weird. It was still a fringe thing. It was its own unit within PayPal. It was a very, very small part of the business and so forth. And again, we were owned by eBay at the time. So eBay had a similar mobile team, but eBay had a whole bunch of other like kind of mobile focus one-off businesses. One was called Red Laser, which sole purpose was for scanning QR codes. Like, so before, like back in 2011, your phone, if you held up the camera would not recognize a QR code, you actually had to have a QR code reader and Red Laser was one of them. And there are a bunch of other like little businesses within eBay. And, you know, to the team's credit, like we, I remember, you know, not long after being there, we all would kind of meet and just talk. Like all these businesses would just all meet together in a big conference room and just like, hey, what are you seeing? What are you finding? And it was actually eBay, it was on the eBay side of things. They were like, we sold a car on mobile. It was like, one of those things like, really? Like somebody just bought a car on a phone? Like, you can do that? Like, I mean, even to us, it seemed kind of novel, but also a little bit of a harbinger for like, things are changing. Somebody just bought a car on this. Like, that's a pretty big deal for where we might be going. If somebody is willing to make that type of a purchase on this device, what does that say? Is this just a one-off fringe? big deal for where we might be going. If somebody is willing to make that type of a purchase on this device, what does that say? Is this just a one-off fringe? Is this somebody, you know, using their Bitcoin to buy a pizza and like, well, nobody's really going to replicate that anytime soon, or is this something new and something special? And, you know, those are the kind of things where you just start to see the trend, you start to see the volume, you start to see the change in behaviors, and you know you're onto something. And soon enough, mobile is not a weird standalone unit. Mobile is now the cool team to kind of be in the company. And then eventually, mobile is not even a team anymore in the company. It's just everything needs to be made mobile first. You know, much credit to Meta and Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg, when he was working on his S1 and his executive letter at the beginning of the S1, when Facebook was going public. Everyone was like, Facebook is gonna get killed by mobile. We're moving in this mobile direction, but Facebook's gonna get killed by mobile. Like we're moving in this mobile direction, but Facebook's gonna get killed. How are you going to serve ads on mobile? This real estate is not big enough. It's just not going to make sense. It's not going to work. He pivoted that entire company. I mean, cause this was like, this was the standard consensus that like, hey, like mobile doesn't work for advertising. Facebook, when people move to mobile, you get it. And Zuckerberg said, okay, I'm going to write this whole thing on mobile. I'm moving everyone to mobile. Like, you know, they had some, you know, HTML5, they had some hiccups and so forth, as you will, when you're doing a major pivot. But he moved them in the right direction. Now, I think he's trying to move them again with meta and the metaverse, clearly, whether or not that's the right direction, I guess, will be seen. I think there's still a lot of skepticism, but I guarantee you, he's thinking back to 10 years ago, I was right. And he clearly was 10 years ago. So this is the file he has in his head. And so because he was right 10 years ago, probably makes it even harder to prove him that he might be wrong, whether or not the metaverse may or may not be the right decision for Facebook. Yeah, yeah, no, you're absolutely right. And obviously Facebook or Meta's stock price is reflecting a tremendous amount of, let's say investor skepticism, right? Yeah, yeah. But you know, so there's those pivotal moments, right? Where the industry insiders sense that things have changed. And you mentioned ChatGPT and even, you know, your 11 year old was like, wait, you can do that? And, you know, I had that moment with ChatGPT where I was like, this is just another chat bot. And then I saw that it passed a practice bar exam. Someone used it to do all kinds of stuff. I don't know if anyone has diagnosed medical cases yet, but people have used it for all kinds of things that you wouldn't think are possible yet, but then I use it to build not a web app yet, that's one of my next projects, but it's like, this thing is a force multiplier for any coder, let alone whatever else is out there that either in version one that it can do or subsequent versions. I think this is one of those pivotal moments. It is as big as switching from browser-based, computer PC-based to mobile-based, but it is the underlying capacity of AI is, I'm not going to say bigger or it's not bigger or less than internet, but it's different, right? It's very different. And so, let's talk about like, let's talk about the good timeline versus the bad timeline, because there's, there's like, what are you, what are you personally worried about in terms of what you're seeing right now? Well, let's just talk about timeline first and then we'll get into the good and the bad. And I wanna give a real specific example, David. So in a class that I'm taking right now for my MFA, like for this semester, I was like, okay, I'm gonna write a longer piece on AIs in the classroom. And so when I started this piece in August, let's say, you know, I started to build this up and I actually went to schools, I talked to teachers, like, none of them had really, like, like, honestly, none of them had heard this, even like the school my kids go to, I live in Silicon Valley. It's a bunch of like tech execs at the school. And I actually went to the high school and was talking to a bunch of kids. This would have been November about GPT-3, maybe 20, 30% of them had ever even heard of GPT-3 or the concept. I mean, like they, and like only one even admitted to using it. Like, and I truly believe the others are like, what are you talking about? I don't know what you're talking about, old man. Like, they didn't know. And so as I'm working on this paper, like it was supposed to be like a 2,500 word piece, I don't know what you're talking about, old man. They didn't know. And so as I'm working on this paper, it's supposed to be a 2500-word piece, longer, interviews, all this other kind of stuff. As I'm about to hand this in, getting close to handing this in, Chat GPT releases. And within a week, like everything changed. Like the timeline that I was thinking back in August, September, for how long this is going to be, even I had some, there was a couple, there weren't many, but a few articles that I was able to find written earlier in 2022 about AI in the classroom. They're like, yeah, this is going to start to change things. Just wait a few years from now, this is changing everything. Within like a week, it started to become really clear that like, oh, this isn't a weak thing. You know, I think Sam Altman, who's the CEO of OpenAI, had tweeted, they've reached a million users of chat GPT within five days. Pretty crazy. Now, how many are true? It's a free product. How many of them are true users? You could argue all these things, but still, there was a million different accounts on OpenAI that had used this product in a very, very short amount of time. Like, that's astronomical and so To your point just like about timelines in general like it's really hard to even just predict like what the timelines are going to be because Truly what I thought the timeline was going to be five months ago is Nowhere near what it seems to be today. And like, is it just, because this is hard, it's just hard for humans to imagine exponential growth. I remember having, I remember taking, sorry, I'm gonna total sidebar here, but I remember at the beginning of pandemic, this was like February, March, no, no, it was March. The kids were already out of school. Like we're doing homeschooling of them. And I'm like, I don't even know what to do with my kids at that point. Cause like the teachers weren't really giving stuff. I got to keep them busy somehow. And I was like, let's understand exponential growth. And I remember we got out all like, we have like hundreds of Lego mini figures and we started to lay them out and to try and explain exponential growth. Because part of this was also for the pandemic, but I was explaining like, are not, and like, you know, like the growth trajectory of a virus and so forth. And it was really hard to grasp that. And so using Legos as a visual representation of like, hey, this is what like linear growth looks like. This is what exponential growth looks like. It's shocking. And just like how after like, you know, a few days of doubling or tripling or whatever it might be, what that means, that's the path that we're going down here. And even for people who are in it, are aware of this, you know, shortcoming of us psychologically of just like how hard it is for us to grasp these things. Because in our caveman days, we never really had to deal with much exponential growth. And anyways, this is just something for all of us, it's gonna be really hard to even understand the timeline. So now, to your question though, so that's on the timeline, to get to what's the good path versus the bad path, So now, to your question though, sorry, that's on the timeline. To get to, you know, what's the good path versus the bad path, look, I think, I hope that this is going to be a tool that is just going to enable more creativity, that is going to be able to level the playing field so that you don't have to have a writing partner. You don't necessarily have to have or have the resources to pay money for an editor. You don't have to, you know, translation has already kind of gone away in many ways, but like let's just say translation or something like that if you want to read something that's in another market or something or not written in your own native tongue, all of these things I truly hope will level the playing field. But that said, there are jobs that are going to go away. There are jobs that are going to change. I don't know what that is going to look like. The consensus three years ago was that, yeah, if you've got a blue collar job right now, you're not in a good place. But where we seem to be today is that it's more of the knowledge workers are going to be replaced by AI. It's the creative types, it's the designers, it's the artists, it's the writers. And look, I think when we start to go down this path, like I don't know how we're going to avoid that on a macro level. On a micro level, I think the people who are truly able to embrace the technology, to accept it, and to find a way for themselves to be more creative by using it, that's where you're gonna get the value. Like, look, I think if you're a writer, you know, what are the things that writers hate? Writers hate marketing. Writers like to write. You know, writers hate doing the synopsis for my book, the summary for Amazon. Like, I know writers and like, it can sometimes take them more time doing that than it can like writing like five chapters in the book. It is like, oh, God, I have to do this. It is so painful. That is stuff where the AI can really, really help. And so, if you can be a kind of person who can embrace that for, you know, the non, let's just say the non-value added stuff or, you know, to frankly never have writer's block. To just be in front of a page and say, hey, can you give me three different directions I can go with this story. I'm stuck here. This character arc is giving me trouble. And to use that, I think that that's going to be really powerful. Again, it's going to be like having the advantage of having a writing partner, which is not something we all have the advantage of having a writing partner which is not something we all have the advantage of having. Yeah. I just want to pause and give some appreciation to the gravity of some of what you are bringing up here because, you know, recently there has been a huge backlash against AI generated art and there is even some I had some mild controversy of my own because I took down some of the tools that I was making that would write novels or parts of novels automatically and I took it down a few months ago because I was like hold on, you know, most of my friends are writers and my fiance is a writer and I was like I don't want to hurt the people I care about and like you said, part of the problem is disruption at this point is inevitable. We can't put this genie back in the bottle. So what do we do? And like you said, we don't know enough right now. We don't have good answers, certainly not on the macro level. So that is definitely something to be worried about. And then also the scale of disruption, right? Our imagination, we can't imagine what it's going to be like if, you know, employment numbers change. And of course, you know, historically, there's one ray of hope here, is historically new technologies ultimately result in more jobs, right? Where, you know, labor gets easier, people are more productive, there's more money to go around, there's more money to spend, which means demand for other services. But, you know, of course, there's more money to go around, there's more money to spend, which means demand for other services. But of course there's the possibility that it might not pan out that way, especially if the machine is cheaper than the human labor and you just take it away from people and then who owns the machines, right? And then, of course, this is the dark timeline speculation. And so do you have any reactions to that or any comments or thoughts on ownership or responsibility for some of this stuff? The thing that I do struggle most about is really the training models. That is where I'm, because as humans, we learn by mimicry. Anybody who has a little kid or has had a little kid or been around little kids know that that is just how we learn as humans and we carry this throughout our lives. We learn by mimicking. We learn by mimicking. Anybody who has written as a teenager, I'm sure if you still have your stuff as a teenager, go back and read what you wrote. It'll probably make you want to throw up because you're like, oh, this is just me mimicking Isaac Asimov or whatever it is that you were reading at the time was doing that. I remember writing something once as a kid. I was like, oh my God. I just like, and then after I wrote it, realized I'm just rewriting Watchmen. Like, it just, and it didn't even dawn on me though. I'm like, this is just ripping off Alan Moore. Like, what am I even doing here? And that's probably how I got away from writing in my youth. So look, as humans, we have always done this, but like to have an AI model that is being trained on, and let's just stick with art for a second, on artists who may not have explicitly, who have not, mind you, explicitly given permission to use their artwork, I think that, you know, are they open to some sort of compensation? Are they open to saying, you can't use this? Like, I don't know how you say you can't, because here's the thing, like, even if, okay, I'm going with my comic roots here. So, there was a very, so very popular artist in the 1990s, a guy who was named Rob Liefeld, who in many ways is now a punching bag for the style he created. It was the epitome of 90s male machismo comic art style. But the style that he created got mimicked by so many others. So even if Rob Liefeld today said, cause I could, and I've done this, I've literally went into something and said, hey, do something in the style of Rob Liefeld. I'm like, ah, that's it. I can totally recognize the style and everything. Even if he said, you can't use my style. There's so many people that came after him that were mimicking his style that we never once said like, hey, even though you're making your own original work, you can't mimic that. You know, that then creates a whole thing. Well, then, do we, what if they want to be included in there? What if they want to, like, you know, have opted in, but their own style is in some way an homage or mimicking or however you want to think of it of that like What do we do in those situations? This is something I mean, so honestly, this is something where I'm really sympathetic to both sides here Like I I totally see both sides I don't know what the answer is and this is a really complicated question that our legal system as it exists today with copyright is nowhere near having a clear solution on. And frankly, at least in the U.S., the sooner we get down that path, the better. But here's the reality is like U.S. is just one of 195 countries in the world. Copyright law is very different wherever you go. Ask any, you know, author what they, you know, how much money, ask any American author how much money they make for their books that are being sold in Iran. And the answer is going to be zero. Because basically Iran does not respect, I shouldn't even say respect, Iran does not recognize U and I shouldn't even say respect is that Iran does not recognize us copyright law so if you want to take a American book translate into Farsi that is completely legal um to do that uh for example and and that's what the local laws are so you're gonna have 195 different versions of them like I don't know what this is going to look like this is you know it gets into geopolitics, you know, and so forth. Like the one thing that at least I try and do as part of all this is I just disclose like crazy. So when I'm writing something, you know, I will, if I'm using, so the example I gave before for what I was doing in my class, in that one specifically, I actually color-coded it. I literally said, okay, the green section, boom, and I put in footnotes where everything came from, and how I was prompting. Whenever I even just use an image, so I write on Medium and on LinkedIn. If I'm using an AI image, which I use lots of, I will actually put this image was developed on MidJourney by Michael Tadasco on this date from this prompt. And I literally put it in there verbatim. And if I said I'd use Rob also not monetizing this, but at least I think step one is being transparent with disclosure on this. It makes me feel a little bit more comfortable, even though I know if I made a picture of a flying tomato, even if I didn't say artist X in there, artist X might still be inspiring that. That makes sense. Yeah, and phenomenal breakdown of the problem. And again, us two talking in an afternoon, we're not going to solve this problem. But it's good to, especially as the world is catching up because, again, the whole reason that we're doing this podcast is things are changing so fast and, you know, we have an opportunity here to at least add to the conversation and help demystify it and keep the conversation moving forward. So just thanks again for coming on and sharing all of that perspective. Phenomenal talk. So I have just a few last questions. What are you up to now? Who do you want to talk to? And how do people reach you? If there's anything you want to plug or just tell everyone like, what is it that Mike Tadasco is up to now? What do you want to be known for in 2023? What do I want to be known for in 2023? What do I want to be known for? Man, you're making me set my goals a few weeks early. I love it. I love it, David. Look, I am super, super fascinated with the world of generative AI. I mean, the whole reason I got to meet you was just watching your YouTube videos over the summer and being like, oh my god, this guy, I learned so much from you in these videos of just how to think through a problem and like, what are the limitations and so forth. So for that, I deeply thank you. And look, I want to meet and I want to just talk to smart people in this space. I'm fascinated. I have no agenda in many ways. Like I'm, I want to just learn and I want us as a society to come out in a better place than what we can, than what we might. I want us to not go down that dark timeline and I want us to just kind of think about it. And for me, I think it means like, it is an inevitability. Like I think we in many ways as a society just have to accept that. But given that, like what is the best way that we can embrace these tools for the most good? And look, if you're a founder and working on something and you wanna bounce ideas off me or if you're just interested in the space or anything like that, I'd love to discuss more. So I write on Medium and LinkedIn, as I said before, just my last name, Todasco, T-O-D-A-S-C-O, is where you can reach me on both of those. I'm pretty much read-only on Twitter, but if you do send a tweet to me, I will respond to it. I just don't post much myself. I'm also Tadasco on Twitter. I love just the intro. Just today on Twitter, I found out, again, just sorry, I know we're wrapping, but to throw it out there, I literally just saw this this morning. It was a wonderful use case for generative AI and using GPT-3, there's this thing called Help a Reporter Out, H-A-R-O, H-A-R-O, and it's been around for years. And I'm on it, and basically, it's any reporter in the US who needs somebody who's an expert in AI or whatever it might be, just puts out a request, and it's this huge list, hundreds and hundreds of links. It's a disaster. Somebody just made this thing in Zapier that basically says, okay, when you see that in Gmail, fill out this spreadsheet, this will have some keywords. And then we're going to then send that. We're going to do some sort of match using GPT-3. And then based on what they're looking for, based on what you say your abilities are, we're going to even generate a cover letter that you could send out to them. And they just built that in Zapier at like, it's beautiful. Like, it's just this beautiful thing. I'm like, oh my God, like that was just this morning I saw that and I'm like, you know, all of these use cases, it's so simple, but like that I'm like, you know, all of these use cases, it's so simple, but like that I'm sure for a lot of people is going to make their lives so much better. It's going to make it so much easier for reporters to find people, for people to find reporters. And like, it's taking something that was built 20 years ago and putting a vast improvement for effectively zero costs on top of it. Wow, yeah, that's a phenomenal use case. And it actually reminds me, so I'm a writer as well. And one of the possibilities that I foresee in terms of as AI gets bigger and decentralized and networked and stuff is, what if you have a machine or an AI that just says, hey, I know who you need to talk to. Like, you're gonna be great friends with this person and makes the introduction. Like, if you want to, obviously like consent matters, privacy matters, but it's like, hey, there's someone that you might wanna talk to. You're going to be great friends with this person and make the introduction. If you want to. Obviously, consent matters, privacy matters, but it's like, hey, there's someone that you might want to talk to. You might want to go work with this person or you might want to get to know this person. Something like that. And what you just said, this happened decades before I thought it would be possible just because the tools, the platforms, and they're recombining with Zapier and Twitter and Gmail and everything else. And that's just phenomenal. Thank you for sharing that, by the way. That's great. Sure, I'll share the link as well. It was amazing. I'd love to give the credit to the person who created it. So. Excellent, perfect, perfect. Well, thanks again, Mike, for this amazing talk and everything that you do and just being willing to help out. And yeah, so for all the members of my audience, reach out to Mike on LinkedIn and Medium. Those are his primary stomping grounds. And who knows, maybe this time next year, we'll be in an entirely different world, having another year-end recap. So thanks, everyone. And Mike, any one or two last words? Lastly, look, everyone, just be good to others. Just think, I think David, you'd even said this in a recent thing, just like, look, this is a hard time that we're going through. We're going through a step change as a society through this. Think ahead, think about how we're going to help our common man and woman with what we're trying to build through this. Be good to others and, you know, let's build some wonderful world-changing products together. Excellent. Thanks so much. See everyone next time and yeah, be excellent to each other. you", "chunks": [{"timestamp": [0.0, 9.94], "text": " All right. Hey, everybody. David Shapiro here with a very special podcast interview. Today"}, {"timestamp": [9.94, 15.86], "text": " we're speaking with Mike Tadasco, a super interesting guy. I think this is probably"}, {"timestamp": [15.86, 19.66], "text": " the third or fourth time I've talked with you, Mike. And just every time I do, it's"}, {"timestamp": [19.66, 23.72], "text": " like I feel so good about like everything that I'm doing and everything that everyone"}, {"timestamp": [23.72, 29.2], "text": " is working on. And so I just wanted to share that excitement with the world."}, {"timestamp": [29.2, 31.2], "text": " So thank you so much for being here."}, {"timestamp": [31.2, 36.0], "text": " Thank you, David. We should have recorded the first three."}, {"timestamp": [36.0, 38.0], "text": " Yes, like with Einstein."}, {"timestamp": [38.0, 43.2], "text": " Seriously, we end up talking for an hour every time and it's so engaging."}, {"timestamp": [43.2, 45.2], "text": " So I just wanted to reproduce that"}, {"timestamp": [45.2, 46.6], "text": " and share it with the world."}, {"timestamp": [47.7, 51.96], "text": " So Mike is, like I said, super interesting guy."}, {"timestamp": [51.96, 54.0], "text": " Would you mind just telling the audience"}, {"timestamp": [54.0, 56.56], "text": " just a little bit about kind of where you come from"}, {"timestamp": [56.56, 57.68], "text": " and what you've done?"}, {"timestamp": [57.68, 60.12], "text": " Just kind of get us prime the pump, so to speak."}, {"timestamp": [60.12, 62.68], "text": " Sure, yeah, no, thanks, David."}, {"timestamp": [62.68, 67.6], "text": " Look, my 60 seconds, I was born and raised in"}, {"timestamp": [67.6, 74.4], "text": " the suburbs of Chicago, kind of grew up as a child in the 80s, collecting comic books and"}, {"timestamp": [74.96, 81.84], "text": " sports cards and things like that, and eventually put my way through college doing that. When I"}, {"timestamp": [82.48, 86.56], "text": " left college and entered the real world, I started off as an accountant,"}, {"timestamp": [86.56, 94.24], "text": " and I was probably the world's worst accountant in many ways. Moved on to the very sexy industry"}, {"timestamp": [94.24, 100.32], "text": " known as paper manufacturing. So literally, and this was right at the time of like the office,"}, {"timestamp": [100.32, 104.32], "text": " so I couldn't tell you the amount of like nondermethylene jokes I heard over time."}, {"timestamp": [104.28, 105.56], "text": " So I couldn't tell you the amount of like nondermethylene jokes I heard over time"}, {"timestamp": [109.76, 110.08], "text": " But I learned a lot of like interesting things in a in a very old"}, {"timestamp": [115.76, 116.96], "text": " Arcade industry and and just have tons of insights from there. I actually left to get an MBA"}, {"timestamp": [120.14, 120.8], "text": " started a e-commerce company after that"}, {"timestamp": [127.32, 131.86], "text": " I'm selling the original artwork called sketch ma. And after doing that for a few years, I joined PayPal and I was at PayPal for 10 and a half years"}, {"timestamp": [131.86, 136.08], "text": " before leaving recently, doing a lot of things in product"}, {"timestamp": [136.08, 139.64], "text": " and for the last five running their innovation org."}, {"timestamp": [140.8, 141.68], "text": " Excellent."}, {"timestamp": [141.68, 144.04], "text": " Yeah, I mean, such a fascinating background"}, {"timestamp": [144.04, 148.4], "text": " and so many people come to technology"}, {"timestamp": [148.4, 153.88], "text": " and today AI from just such a diverse background. I want to pick your brain about like, what"}, {"timestamp": [153.88, 160.04], "text": " was it like being the world's worst accountant and then switching to paper and then switching"}, {"timestamp": [160.04, 165.28], "text": " to like, what was that choice? Because I mean, obviously like going back and getting an MBA,"}, {"timestamp": [165.28, 167.2], "text": " like it sounds like you might've just realized like,"}, {"timestamp": [167.2, 169.8], "text": " man, I took a wrong turn, I need to backtrack."}, {"timestamp": [169.8, 171.84], "text": " Is that kind of what happened?"}, {"timestamp": [171.84, 173.48], "text": " Yeah, I mean, look, part of it,"}, {"timestamp": [173.48, 178.48], "text": " I mean, specifically on the MBA was we had,"}, {"timestamp": [178.64, 183.0], "text": " I was living in Ohio when I got out of school"}, {"timestamp": [183.0, 184.76], "text": " and that's where I met my wife"}, {"timestamp": [184.76, 187.58], "text": " and we had an opportunity to move out to California,"}, {"timestamp": [187.58, 189.44], "text": " which was awesome."}, {"timestamp": [189.44, 192.04], "text": " And so when we moved out here, it was for her job."}, {"timestamp": [192.04, 193.88], "text": " I continued to work for my company."}, {"timestamp": [193.88, 197.94], "text": " I was working remote for my company back in Ohio."}, {"timestamp": [197.94, 200.5], "text": " And frankly, I didn't know anybody out here."}, {"timestamp": [200.5, 202.94], "text": " And going back to school and getting an MBA"}, {"timestamp": [202.94, 205.32], "text": " was frankly my way to meet people."}, {"timestamp": [205.32, 207.68], "text": " I was able to do it through my employers."}, {"timestamp": [207.68, 209.6], "text": " I was doing it part-time while I was there,"}, {"timestamp": [209.6, 212.52], "text": " but it was just a way to meet people and network"}, {"timestamp": [212.52, 216.76], "text": " and all of that wonderful stuff as part of the process."}, {"timestamp": [218.0, 220.88], "text": " I'll pause there because I think David died."}, {"timestamp": [232.12, 234.36], "text": " Hey there, there you go. I finished my sentence but then I was like, uh-oh, is this going to be, I think it's still recording through all of it."}, {"timestamp": [234.36, 236.4], "text": " I closed the wrong tab, I apologize."}, {"timestamp": [236.4, 240.76], "text": " I was trying to reduce distractions and then I reduced all of the distractions to zero."}, {"timestamp": [240.76, 244.36], "text": " So no, it should still be recording and if not, we'll clean it up."}, {"timestamp": [244.36, 248.24], "text": " It seems to record through the whole thing and like I said, I kind of just finished the thought"}, {"timestamp": [248.24, 255.92], "text": " on coming out and doing my MBA to meet people. Excellent. Excellent. Yeah. So you used it to"}, {"timestamp": [255.92, 261.28], "text": " meet people, to get ahead, to stand out in the crowd. And clearly it worked. You were able to do"}, {"timestamp": [261.28, 266.68], "text": " a e-commerce platform, SketchMaven, and then eventually to PayPal."}, {"timestamp": [266.68, 268.74], "text": " But you said that there was some interesting things"}, {"timestamp": [268.74, 270.34], "text": " that you learned at SketchMaven."}, {"timestamp": [270.34, 271.86], "text": " So what are some stories"}, {"timestamp": [271.86, 274.94], "text": " from your first e-commerce venture?"}, {"timestamp": [274.94, 279.94], "text": " Yeah, so SketchMaven was something,"}, {"timestamp": [280.38, 282.14], "text": " look, I'm recommending this for everybody."}, {"timestamp": [282.14, 284.94], "text": " Like, just have an ideologue that you keep."}, {"timestamp": [284.94, 288.36], "text": " I've been doing this since I was at least in undergrad."}, {"timestamp": [288.36, 289.36], "text": " I'm 45 now."}, {"timestamp": [289.36, 294.8], "text": " So, like, this is a long time I've been just kind of keeping a list of ideas that I have"}, {"timestamp": [294.8, 296.16], "text": " and ideas for whatever."}, {"timestamp": [296.16, 300.4], "text": " Because, like, you never want a good idea or a bad idea go to waste."}, {"timestamp": [300.4, 303.32], "text": " And every good idea starts as a bad idea."}, {"timestamp": [303.32, 309.8], "text": " And I just remember one time, as a kid kid I went to comic and baseball card and sports card"}, {"timestamp": [309.8, 311.24], "text": " conventions selling stuff."}, {"timestamp": [311.24, 313.4], "text": " I would be a dealer and so forth."}, {"timestamp": [313.4, 319.76], "text": " I remember going to this one convention, boy, early 90s or something and seeing an artist"}, {"timestamp": [319.76, 327.96], "text": " there and the artist had a cover of a Green Lantern comic book that I really liked. And"}, {"timestamp": [327.96, 334.1], "text": " to give you background on this, so at least back in the day before things went digital,"}, {"timestamp": [334.1, 342.0], "text": " every comic book you have ever seen in your life came from a hand-drawn piece of artwork."}, {"timestamp": [342.0, 346.8], "text": " Even though that comic book may have been viewed by millions of people"}, {"timestamp": [346.8, 352.68], "text": " multiple times, there is only one original from which that came. And so it creates this"}, {"timestamp": [352.68, 359.48], "text": " really unique problem where for every comic book piece of artwork that has ever existed,"}, {"timestamp": [359.48, 365.24], "text": " there's one and only one of them, but there are millions and tens of millions of these pages and covers"}, {"timestamp": [365.24, 367.44], "text": " and so forth of that."}, {"timestamp": [367.44, 371.58], "text": " So this is a very unique problem in that space."}, {"timestamp": [371.58, 377.96], "text": " And when I was a kid and saw this cover, I was like, oh, you know, it was $150, I think"}, {"timestamp": [377.96, 378.96], "text": " it was."}, {"timestamp": [378.96, 379.96], "text": " I'm like, I didn't quite have that money."}, {"timestamp": [379.96, 380.96], "text": " I had some decent money."}, {"timestamp": [380.96, 389.04], "text": " I was selling a lot of stuff, but I didn't have 150 bucks to blow on a piece of artwork, you know, when I'm like 13 years old or something, especially"}, {"timestamp": [389.04, 396.16], "text": " back in the nineties. So when I was fast forward, I'm an accountant, I'm actually making real"}, {"timestamp": [396.16, 400.28], "text": " money out there in the workforce. And so I was like, it just dawned on me. I'm like,"}, {"timestamp": [400.28, 404.68], "text": " well, I should go buy that thing. Go on eBay, can't find it. Go on all these other places,"}, {"timestamp": [404.68, 405.28], "text": " can't find it."}, {"timestamp": [406.32, 407.28], "text": " I don't know where this thing is. I don't know where it is."}, {"timestamp": [408.08, 412.16], "text": " And that's the reality when there's only one of something in the world."}, {"timestamp": [412.84, 416.08], "text": " It's really hard to find where that thing is."}, {"timestamp": [416.48, 419.52], "text": " And when there's, like I said, millions of these ones."}, {"timestamp": [420.18, 422.68], "text": " Well then like that's sort of an interesting problem."}, {"timestamp": [422.74, 426.52], "text": " And that's what birthed the concept for SketchMaven."}, {"timestamp": [426.52, 433.52], "text": " It was a very structured marketplace where people could buy and sell and even say that"}, {"timestamp": [433.52, 438.28], "text": " they want and desire certain pieces of original comic book art."}, {"timestamp": [438.28, 442.52], "text": " I started the business in 2009."}, {"timestamp": [442.52, 447.84], "text": " And you know, it was a marketplace, like, because most of these things were being sold on eBay at"}, {"timestamp": [447.84, 451.96], "text": " the time. And I think even today, in very many ways, they still are. Some artists had"}, {"timestamp": [451.96, 455.3], "text": " their own sites and so forth, but there was nowhere to find it. If I wanted to tell the"}, {"timestamp": [455.3, 461.92], "text": " world I wanted this Green Lantern cover, there was no way to actually do so."}, {"timestamp": [461.92, 467.84], "text": " And so this was an idea I had 10 years prior. 2009, I'm going through my idea file"}, {"timestamp": [467.84, 473.36], "text": " and I'm like, oh, that's interesting. I wonder if anyone's done that. Lo and behold, not. And I'm"}, {"timestamp": [473.36, 477.12], "text": " like, well, maybe this is something that I should build. I don't really care about the Green Lantern"}, {"timestamp": [477.12, 488.84], "text": " cover anymore, to be completely honest. But the concept still held true true. I felt that if this could work for a niche that I understood like original comic art,"}, {"timestamp": [488.84, 492.24], "text": " well, it could definitely work for other things."}, {"timestamp": [492.24, 497.64], "text": " Like pens and collectible shoes and sneakers and things like that."}, {"timestamp": [497.64, 503.2], "text": " Where I felt that they were vastly underserved by eBay and other sites at the time."}, {"timestamp": [503.2, 506.22], "text": " And in some ways that thesis proved out,"}, {"timestamp": [506.22, 508.56], "text": " you know, there's Goats and StockX and so forth"}, {"timestamp": [508.56, 510.16], "text": " that now do that and choose."}, {"timestamp": [510.16, 512.2], "text": " It's probably about five years too early"}, {"timestamp": [512.2, 514.96], "text": " as those launched, you know, much later."}, {"timestamp": [515.96, 517.8], "text": " But, you know, as I was building the site,"}, {"timestamp": [517.8, 519.92], "text": " it was my first experience ever building something."}, {"timestamp": [519.92, 524.88], "text": " I was on Upwork, which was known as Odesk at the time."}, {"timestamp": [524.88, 527.76], "text": " I was hiring people, everything from PR people"}, {"timestamp": [527.76, 529.94], "text": " to engineers and so forth."}, {"timestamp": [529.94, 532.24], "text": " I was just figuring out stuff myself."}, {"timestamp": [533.76, 537.48], "text": " This was even before like Braintree and Stripe, mind you."}, {"timestamp": [537.48, 540.32], "text": " So I remember like having engineers work"}, {"timestamp": [540.32, 544.08], "text": " and help build the sites and a few days before launch"}, {"timestamp": [544.08, 547.16], "text": " and I look and I'm going through the checkout myself"}, {"timestamp": [547.16, 551.46], "text": " and I'm like, there's no little lock icon"}, {"timestamp": [551.46, 553.56], "text": " in the, for the shopping cart"}, {"timestamp": [553.56, 556.24], "text": " when people are entering their credit card information."}, {"timestamp": [556.24, 559.36], "text": " And again, this is like Stripe took care of that."}, {"timestamp": [559.36, 562.0], "text": " Like you don't even need to worry about that anymore."}, {"timestamp": [562.0, 564.88], "text": " 2009, that was a problem."}, {"timestamp": [564.88, 566.0], "text": " And I'm like, oh, God, I didn't"}, {"timestamp": [566.0, 571.52], "text": " write that in the spec document for the engineers to actually say, yes, this needs to be secure,"}, {"timestamp": [571.52, 577.6], "text": " and so on and so forth. And so was all of these fun things. So it was an amazing two year ride"}, {"timestamp": [578.24, 585.52], "text": " that had to deal, you know, happy customers, unhappy customers, hackers, all this wonderful stuff that I learned about"}, {"timestamp": [585.52, 587.1], "text": " in my two years there."}, {"timestamp": [588.7, 589.54], "text": " Excellent."}, {"timestamp": [589.54, 593.9], "text": " Yeah, I mean, so, I mean, there's so much to unpack there"}, {"timestamp": [593.9, 595.48], "text": " because like, you know, you had an idea file,"}, {"timestamp": [595.48, 598.22], "text": " you came back to it after 10 years, right?"}, {"timestamp": [598.22, 600.42], "text": " And that probably, especially for some"}, {"timestamp": [600.42, 603.92], "text": " of the younger audience members who are just getting into,"}, {"timestamp": [603.92, 606.42], "text": " you know, just cutting their teeth on AI and startups and stuff,"}, {"timestamp": [606.42, 609.24], "text": " just the idea of, you jot all this stuff down."}, {"timestamp": [609.24, 610.84], "text": " Do you have any, like, let's start there."}, {"timestamp": [610.84, 613.62], "text": " Like, do you have any pro tips on keeping ideas?"}, {"timestamp": [613.62, 616.04], "text": " You said all good ideas start as bad ideas."}, {"timestamp": [616.04, 617.98], "text": " And in this case, there was something that you wanted,"}, {"timestamp": [617.98, 618.82], "text": " right?"}, {"timestamp": [618.82, 619.98], "text": " That was kind of the genesis of this,"}, {"timestamp": [619.98, 622.44], "text": " but then like, then we'll unpack some of the lessons learned,"}, {"timestamp": [622.44, 625.9], "text": " but let's start there with the ideas, the brainstorming."}, {"timestamp": [625.9, 628.0], "text": " How did you decide that this was something"}, {"timestamp": [628.0, 629.68], "text": " you were gonna build?"}, {"timestamp": [629.68, 632.0], "text": " Oh, how did I decide it was something I was gonna build?"}, {"timestamp": [632.0, 633.08], "text": " Because it intrigued me."}, {"timestamp": [633.08, 635.42], "text": " I mean, again, I remember this,"}, {"timestamp": [635.42, 638.44], "text": " I remember being a kid and seeing this."}, {"timestamp": [638.44, 641.4], "text": " And then I remember writing it down 10 years later,"}, {"timestamp": [641.4, 644.24], "text": " and then 10 years, give or take, after that,"}, {"timestamp": [644.24, 645.36], "text": " going back and saying,"}, {"timestamp": [646.16, 650.96], "text": " Oh, I'm sure somebody has already done that. Like, like that was my gut reaction. I'm like, Oh, I'm"}, {"timestamp": [650.96, 656.32], "text": " sure this exists. This is a no brainer. This has to exist in the world. Doing a little bit of"}, {"timestamp": [656.32, 662.16], "text": " research and be like, huh, it doesn't. And again, mind you, just because something already exists in"}, {"timestamp": [662.16, 665.88], "text": " the world, doesn't mean that you shouldn't do your own version of it"}, {"timestamp": [665.88, 667.88], "text": " I want to be really really clear"}, {"timestamp": [668.96, 673.88], "text": " You know Google was the 30th 40th major search engine that launched"}, {"timestamp": [674.4, 678.78], "text": " It was and plenty of people said like why does the world need another search engine?"}, {"timestamp": [678.78, 681.56], "text": " They just you know using page rank and other things"}, {"timestamp": [681.56, 685.84], "text": " They just had a better and more more innovative way of doing things. So"}, {"timestamp": [685.84, 690.32], "text": " just because something exists doesn't mean you shouldn't. But to me, that was just a really"}, {"timestamp": [690.32, 695.84], "text": " interesting tell, and a way of just saying, oh, this is something I like. This is something I'm"}, {"timestamp": [695.84, 707.32], "text": " passionate about. I want to go through this ride, and I should just go on and do more analysis. And I remember then going to conventions,"}, {"timestamp": [707.32, 711.28], "text": " talking to artists, talking to collectors,"}, {"timestamp": [711.28, 712.52], "text": " just talking to people like,"}, {"timestamp": [712.52, 715.04], "text": " hey, how are you buying stuff?"}, {"timestamp": [715.04, 716.28], "text": " I knew people were using eBay."}, {"timestamp": [716.28, 719.08], "text": " I knew people were using like a site called Comic Art Fans"}, {"timestamp": [719.08, 721.28], "text": " and others and just doing the research,"}, {"timestamp": [721.28, 723.56], "text": " seeing what's out there and just doing a lot of deep"}, {"timestamp": [723.56, 726.3], "text": " customer work and just asking a lot of questions."}, {"timestamp": [727.2, 730.16], "text": " And from that, you start to formulate what the solution is."}, {"timestamp": [730.16, 734.08], "text": " And there's one thing I've learned in ideating"}, {"timestamp": [734.08, 735.24], "text": " and building out a business,"}, {"timestamp": [735.24, 739.4], "text": " it's don't fall in love with your idea,"}, {"timestamp": [739.4, 741.4], "text": " fall in love with your customer."}, {"timestamp": [741.4, 744.36], "text": " I mean, that's really important for people to know"}, {"timestamp": [747.04, 747.84], "text": " because your idea"}, {"timestamp": [752.24, 757.12], "text": " is going to change. And to my fault, when I was first building this, I probably didn't change enough. I didn't pivot enough. I probably didn't listen to customers enough. I mean, I was doing"}, {"timestamp": [757.12, 763.44], "text": " it some, like, I feel I'm much wiser now and wouldn't make that same mistake. But I think"}, {"timestamp": [763.44, 767.52], "text": " that's a really big thing. And from there, you just keep iterating"}, {"timestamp": [767.52, 771.68], "text": " and just figure out, like, okay, well, what are the hard things for me to do? The hard thing for"}, {"timestamp": [771.68, 776.96], "text": " me in this was building out the website, because I had never done that. And like I said, this was"}, {"timestamp": [776.96, 786.36], "text": " before, like, even, oh, gosh, I even remember, one of the reasons I ultimately took a job at PayPal in 2011"}, {"timestamp": [786.36, 789.16], "text": " was because PayPal saved my butt in 2009."}, {"timestamp": [789.16, 792.08], "text": " I actually remember I did a credit card processing."}, {"timestamp": [792.08, 796.16], "text": " Originally, I signed up with an account through Costco."}, {"timestamp": [796.16, 799.32], "text": " Avalon, I think was the name of the processor at the time,"}, {"timestamp": [799.32, 800.88], "text": " signed up ready to go."}, {"timestamp": [800.88, 803.28], "text": " And then all of a sudden, like three weeks before launch,"}, {"timestamp": [803.28, 810.08], "text": " they reached out to me like, is this a marketplace? Yeah, we don't do marketplaces. And I'm like, what? Did I tell"}, {"timestamp": [810.08, 814.32], "text": " you that? Like, I don't know what happened. Like I didn't even take $1 of payments. I was already"}, {"timestamp": [814.32, 818.56], "text": " paying them 30 bucks a month. And they're like, yeah, nevermind. We don't do you. You're too risky"}, {"timestamp": [818.56, 823.44], "text": " to us. And then frankly, I knew, I had some friends at PayPal. They're like, yeah, yeah,"}, {"timestamp": [823.44, 825.6], "text": " we'll take care of you. Don't worry. And they saved my butt. And that's why I knew I had some friends at PayPal. They're like, yeah, yeah, we'll take care of you. Don't worry."}, {"timestamp": [825.6, 827.12], "text": " And they saved my butt."}, {"timestamp": [827.12, 828.96], "text": " And that's why I think two years later"}, {"timestamp": [828.96, 832.12], "text": " as being a merchant for PayPal's credit card processing,"}, {"timestamp": [832.12, 834.48], "text": " I was like, oh, this was a very logical place"}, {"timestamp": [834.48, 837.88], "text": " for me to enter the next part of my journey."}, {"timestamp": [838.76, 842.88], "text": " But yeah, I'm sorry, I went on a little side rant there."}, {"timestamp": [842.88, 843.72], "text": " You're good."}, {"timestamp": [843.72, 847.56], "text": " Like, hopefully that still gets to the root of the question. I think when"}, {"timestamp": [847.56, 852.6], "text": " you're ideating, again, you want as big of a funnel in the beginning as possible. You"}, {"timestamp": [852.6, 857.96], "text": " want as many ideas as possible. And you want to just then give it some time, get away from"}, {"timestamp": [857.96, 864.2], "text": " those ideas, then come back to them a day, a week, 10 years later, whatever it is, and"}, {"timestamp": [864.2, 866.32], "text": " see what resonates. See what still holds true,"}, {"timestamp": [866.32, 868.88], "text": " and then you start to do the research and analysis."}, {"timestamp": [870.24, 871.44], "text": " Absolutely."}, {"timestamp": [871.44, 876.04], "text": " You know, as a fledgling, you know, startup,"}, {"timestamp": [876.04, 877.52], "text": " tech startup guy myself,"}, {"timestamp": [877.52, 879.98], "text": " everything that you said is what people tell me,"}, {"timestamp": [879.98, 882.72], "text": " it's what I read, but the way that you said it,"}, {"timestamp": [882.72, 884.42], "text": " one thing that you said really stood out to me,"}, {"timestamp": [884.42, 886.24], "text": " which was don't fall in love with your product"}, {"timestamp": [886.24, 888.64], "text": " or your idea, fall in love with your customer."}, {"timestamp": [888.64, 891.72], "text": " And that I think is so critical and so important."}, {"timestamp": [891.72, 893.28], "text": " And I realized as soon as you said it,"}, {"timestamp": [893.28, 894.8], "text": " you're absolutely right."}, {"timestamp": [894.8, 897.28], "text": " Because one of the things that I'm working on is AutoMuse,"}, {"timestamp": [897.28, 899.48], "text": " which is for writers."}, {"timestamp": [899.48, 901.92], "text": " And it's like, this is for writers."}, {"timestamp": [901.92, 903.88], "text": " I have ideas about what I want to build,"}, {"timestamp": [903.88, 905.92], "text": " but no, I did exactly what you"}, {"timestamp": [905.92, 912.96], "text": " said, which is I talked to writers, screenplay writers. I've talked to actors now, all kinds"}, {"timestamp": [912.96, 916.96], "text": " of stuff, but I don't want to make this about me. I just wanted to agree and reinforce that point."}, {"timestamp": [918.8, 925.36], "text": " Sorry, just one last thing on that. For anybody who wants to go deeper into this, I will give a plug."}, {"timestamp": [925.36, 931.48], "text": " Adobe had created an open source, something called Kickbox. And so for anybody can go"}, {"timestamp": [931.48, 938.66], "text": " to kickbox.org. It's totally, it's open source, it's free. Anyone can download it. It is kind"}, {"timestamp": [938.66, 945.24], "text": " of a way to go from ideation to business launch. When I worked at PayPal, we actually took a version,"}, {"timestamp": [945.24, 948.4], "text": " we modified it and used it internally as well."}, {"timestamp": [948.4, 951.32], "text": " And it is an amazing tool that anyone can use."}, {"timestamp": [951.32, 956.12], "text": " And I probably take that quote directly from Kickbox."}, {"timestamp": [956.12, 958.24], "text": " So I do wanna give due credit to them,"}, {"timestamp": [958.24, 962.08], "text": " but that's a great tool if anybody does wanna go deeper"}, {"timestamp": [962.08, 963.96], "text": " into like, how do you do this?"}, {"timestamp": [963.96, 965.12], "text": " How do you really make it so you"}, {"timestamp": [965.12, 969.44], "text": " fall in love with your customer and not get too focused on your specific solution?"}, {"timestamp": [970.56, 976.64], "text": " Excellent. Perfect. Yeah. And thanks for that. Sharing that resource. We'll have to unpack that"}, {"timestamp": [976.64, 981.76], "text": " a little bit later too, if we get back around to it. So one thing that you mentioned just a few"}, {"timestamp": [981.76, 985.36], "text": " minutes ago while building SketchMaven"}, {"timestamp": [985.36, 989.16], "text": " was, you know, there's the little snafu around payments, you've had"}, {"timestamp": [989.16, 993.0], "text": " happy customers, unhappy customers, and then, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [993.0, 996.6], "text": " writing specs for engineers and kind of forgetting a few things here and there."}, {"timestamp": [996.6, 1000.4], "text": " So what were some of the interesting stories or lessons learned about, like,"}, {"timestamp": [1000.4, 1003.96], "text": " you know, kind of doing everything yourself or pulling it all together and just kind of,"}, {"timestamp": [1003.96, 1006.48], "text": " you know, things that you learned the hard way, I guess,"}, {"timestamp": [1006.48, 1007.32], "text": " is the way to ask it."}, {"timestamp": [1007.32, 1011.04], "text": " Yeah, I mean, look, I think so many people I talk to,"}, {"timestamp": [1011.04, 1013.52], "text": " I'm not technical, again, I started as an accountant."}, {"timestamp": [1013.52, 1016.48], "text": " I understand technology fairly well"}, {"timestamp": [1016.48, 1018.44], "text": " and I've always been fascinated by it,"}, {"timestamp": [1018.44, 1021.88], "text": " but, you know, I wasn't technical per se."}, {"timestamp": [1021.88, 1024.0], "text": " And I remember so many people I was meeting with like,"}, {"timestamp": [1024.0, 1026.24], "text": " hey, you need a technical co-founder."}, {"timestamp": [1026.24, 1031.0], "text": " And I was going to school up here at Berkeley at the time."}, {"timestamp": [1031.0, 1034.08], "text": " So there's a lot of technical people up there,"}, {"timestamp": [1034.08, 1035.56], "text": " getting my MBA."}, {"timestamp": [1035.56, 1039.12], "text": " And I actually remember interviewing a bunch of people."}, {"timestamp": [1039.12, 1041.8], "text": " I wanted somebody with the technical chops,"}, {"timestamp": [1041.8, 1044.32], "text": " kind of the passion for the space."}, {"timestamp": [1044.32, 1046.4], "text": " And there was one other thing I was"}, {"timestamp": [1046.4, 1050.96], "text": " looking for. But basically, passion for space was the one thing we had in common. And then"}, {"timestamp": [1050.96, 1055.6], "text": " they were trying to plug gaps where I had deficiencies. That's what you want in your co-founder."}, {"timestamp": [1056.4, 1063.44], "text": " And I really, I think I was being too picky, like with hindsight, like I was looking for the perfect"}, {"timestamp": [1063.44, 1065.22], "text": " person. I interviewed a bunch of people."}, {"timestamp": [1065.22, 1066.76], "text": " I was, you know, very conscious."}, {"timestamp": [1066.76, 1068.5], "text": " I'm like, ah, I can do it myself."}, {"timestamp": [1068.5, 1071.36], "text": " Like I got this, I could be a solopreneur."}, {"timestamp": [1071.36, 1073.96], "text": " I don't need to raise venture money right now for this."}, {"timestamp": [1073.96, 1076.56], "text": " Like I'm gonna go off and do this thing on my own."}, {"timestamp": [1076.56, 1080.12], "text": " So, you know, I think mistake number one was not doing that"}, {"timestamp": [1080.12, 1083.64], "text": " because as I had mentioned, I had a bunch of people"}, {"timestamp": [1083.64, 1087.12], "text": " on Upwork that were building this site and"}, {"timestamp": [1089.28, 1094.24], "text": " you know even though I didn't put that in the specs that's hey you're building a checkout you"}, {"timestamp": [1094.24, 1100.32], "text": " need to make sure it's secure so on and so forth it should have been known like any decent"}, {"timestamp": [1100.32, 1105.64], "text": " engineering team would have like kind of called that out and said like, hey, I don't see this in the specs."}, {"timestamp": [1105.64, 1107.08], "text": " Are you sure that is right?"}, {"timestamp": [1107.08, 1110.16], "text": " Because every checkout we've ever done, like, no."}, {"timestamp": [1110.16, 1113.04], "text": " And, you know, I wasn't paying that much money"}, {"timestamp": [1113.04, 1114.72], "text": " because I didn't look, I was funding this"}, {"timestamp": [1114.72, 1115.56], "text": " out of my own pocket."}, {"timestamp": [1115.56, 1117.96], "text": " I didn't have a lot of money to do that."}, {"timestamp": [1117.96, 1120.56], "text": " But any great CTO would have caught these things"}, {"timestamp": [1120.56, 1121.52], "text": " much earlier."}, {"timestamp": [1121.52, 1124.28], "text": " And even if they weren't doing the engineering work"}, {"timestamp": [1124.28, 1125.72], "text": " themselves, they"}, {"timestamp": [1125.72, 1129.88], "text": " would have, you know, or only a portion of it and they would have been able to manage"}, {"timestamp": [1129.88, 1137.52], "text": " it much, much tighter. So at some point, you know, the site was getting decent traction,"}, {"timestamp": [1137.52, 1144.08], "text": " decent, not great, but decent and maybe about six months out. So most of my focus at that"}, {"timestamp": [1144.08, 1145.44], "text": " time at post-launch"}, {"timestamp": [1145.44, 1147.82], "text": " was on marketing activities and things like that."}, {"timestamp": [1147.82, 1148.66], "text": " That's where you wanna be."}, {"timestamp": [1148.66, 1150.44], "text": " You wanna be in growth mode."}, {"timestamp": [1150.44, 1152.62], "text": " How do I make our customers happy?"}, {"timestamp": [1152.62, 1155.36], "text": " How do we get more inventory on the site?"}, {"timestamp": [1155.36, 1156.36], "text": " Within a marketplace,"}, {"timestamp": [1156.36, 1158.84], "text": " do you always want the balance between buyers and sellers"}, {"timestamp": [1158.84, 1160.2], "text": " to be somewhat in line?"}, {"timestamp": [1160.2, 1163.16], "text": " Because they're always gonna be a little bit out of whack"}, {"timestamp": [1163.16, 1166.52], "text": " and it's sort of hard to keep that in balance"}, {"timestamp": [1166.52, 1168.48], "text": " as you're moving forward."}, {"timestamp": [1168.48, 1170.68], "text": " But about six months in,"}, {"timestamp": [1170.68, 1172.2], "text": " I remember waking up one morning"}, {"timestamp": [1172.2, 1173.8], "text": " and going out to the site like,"}, {"timestamp": [1173.8, 1175.56], "text": " well, a bunch of new people signed up."}, {"timestamp": [1175.56, 1177.88], "text": " And I'm like, the hell are these people?"}, {"timestamp": [1178.88, 1181.12], "text": " And then that's when I realized, I'm like,"}, {"timestamp": [1181.12, 1185.2], "text": " oh, these are legit accounts. These"}, {"timestamp": [1185.2, 1189.44], "text": " are bots. These are spam like, like, the site's getting hacked."}, {"timestamp": [1189.52, 1192.8], "text": " Like, and there's there's some, there's some interesting things"}, {"timestamp": [1192.8, 1196.32], "text": " ever going on. There are some seeds and so forth. There are"}, {"timestamp": [1196.48, 1199.32], "text": " malicious code where I personally had to roll some"}, {"timestamp": [1199.32, 1202.96], "text": " stuff back on the site. I don't think it was built very securely"}, {"timestamp": [1202.96, 1204.96], "text": " and God knows what we're doing with people's credit card"}, {"timestamp": [1204.96, 1206.32], "text": " information and so forth"}, {"timestamp": [1206.32, 1207.88], "text": " on this thing with hindsight."}, {"timestamp": [1209.16, 1213.84], "text": " So all of that said, like, it was a bit of a mess."}, {"timestamp": [1213.84, 1217.36], "text": " And I went from spending, you know, 10, 20% of my time"}, {"timestamp": [1217.36, 1222.26], "text": " worried about security, IT infrastructure to, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [1222.26, 1223.76], "text": " 80, 90%."}, {"timestamp": [1223.76, 1227.36], "text": " And when you're trying to grow a business, that's not where you want to"}, {"timestamp": [1227.36, 1234.8], "text": " be. The one silver lining, I give so much credit to my sister-in-law for just reframing my thinking"}, {"timestamp": [1234.8, 1242.56], "text": " on this. I remember seeing her and the rest of the family over the holidays and being just kind"}, {"timestamp": [1242.56, 1248.68], "text": " of really depressed, like, oh gosh, I'm doing this. And all of a sudden, there's all these hackers on there and all"}, {"timestamp": [1248.68, 1253.8], "text": " forth. And her response to me was, well, at least you built a site that was important"}, {"timestamp": [1253.8, 1261.52], "text": " enough for them to hack. And I'm like, okay. There is a silver lining in that. If it really"}, {"timestamp": [1261.52, 1266.4], "text": " was, you know, at the very beginning, they weren't hacking it and so forth. So like"}, {"timestamp": [1266.4, 1272.56], "text": " there's somebody in Russia or wherever it was, who was truly taking the time to do this."}, {"timestamp": [1272.56, 1277.76], "text": " So that was an interesting silver lining to put on all this. But just the amount of time"}, {"timestamp": [1277.76, 1281.72], "text": " I spent on that where it could have been on growth, it was just such a lack of focus."}, {"timestamp": [1281.72, 1287.28], "text": " And I think it really started to kind of derail where the business could have been going."}, {"timestamp": [1287.28, 1288.4], "text": " That makes sense."}, {"timestamp": [1288.4, 1290.28], "text": " Yeah, and yeah, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [1290.28, 1292.44], "text": " like success is a double-edged sword, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1292.44, 1296.16], "text": " Like the more popular you are or the more well-known,"}, {"timestamp": [1296.16, 1297.42], "text": " the bigger of a target you are"}, {"timestamp": [1297.42, 1299.32], "text": " for any number of things, right?"}, {"timestamp": [1299.32, 1301.2], "text": " Or was it Sergey Brin said,"}, {"timestamp": [1301.2, 1303.52], "text": " success breeds litigation?"}, {"timestamp": [1303.52, 1304.36], "text": " Yes."}, {"timestamp": [1304.36, 1308.8], "text": " Yes. You know, or in this case, Russian hackers is what it"}, {"timestamp": [1308.8, 1314.96], "text": " attracts. That's right. That's right. Exactly. Definitely an apocryphal or not apocryphal"}, {"timestamp": [1316.0, 1320.16], "text": " allegorical story about how important it is to have security done right. But as you mentioned"}, {"timestamp": [1320.16, 1328.88], "text": " earlier, there's a lot of services like Stripe that makes these things just out of the box much more secure and much safer. So I guess I have"}, {"timestamp": [1328.88, 1333.0], "text": " two directions I want to go and I'll let you pick which one we go first. So in"}, {"timestamp": [1333.0, 1336.86], "text": " terms of where the industry is today, you know, the tools that are available, the"}, {"timestamp": [1336.86, 1340.26], "text": " platforms that are available, alternatively you did mention like a"}, {"timestamp": [1340.26, 1345.42], "text": " CTO could have helped you catch this. So I'll let you pick path A or path B,"}, {"timestamp": [1345.42, 1347.58], "text": " which do you want to talk about first?"}, {"timestamp": [1347.58, 1349.38], "text": " Oh, like basically you're saying"}, {"timestamp": [1349.38, 1352.22], "text": " if I were to recreate this site today, how would I do it?"}, {"timestamp": [1352.22, 1353.74], "text": " What would I do differently?"}, {"timestamp": [1353.74, 1356.78], "text": " Yeah, if you had all the tools today,"}, {"timestamp": [1356.78, 1358.26], "text": " you were 10 years younger"}, {"timestamp": [1358.26, 1361.58], "text": " and had all the lessons though,"}, {"timestamp": [1361.58, 1363.58], "text": " what would you do differently?"}, {"timestamp": [1363.58, 1366.96], "text": " I don't think I'd hire a CTO."}, {"timestamp": [1372.4, 1377.44], "text": " I know I gave this whole speech basically saying how like, oh, that was the biggest mistake. I think at the time it was the biggest mistake. And look, I wouldn't say I wouldn't hire a CTO,"}, {"timestamp": [1377.44, 1384.48], "text": " but I would say it's not required to have a CTO because you're absolutely right. Between"}, {"timestamp": [1384.08, 1387.72], "text": " to have a CTO because you're absolutely right. Between all of the services,"}, {"timestamp": [1387.72, 1389.98], "text": " there's some fairly good no-code solutions"}, {"timestamp": [1389.98, 1391.14], "text": " out there as well."}, {"timestamp": [1391.14, 1393.76], "text": " And I was getting a little bit into the code myself."}, {"timestamp": [1393.76, 1396.04], "text": " So I was able to tweak things here or there"}, {"timestamp": [1396.04, 1398.48], "text": " where there wasn't like a CMS solution."}, {"timestamp": [1398.48, 1400.28], "text": " I was able to kind of figure things out."}, {"timestamp": [1400.28, 1401.84], "text": " It was all built in PHP."}, {"timestamp": [1401.84, 1404.88], "text": " And I was able to do a lot with that,"}, {"timestamp": [1404.88, 1408.4], "text": " but for security with Stripe or Braintree"}, {"timestamp": [1408.4, 1410.12], "text": " and other products like that,"}, {"timestamp": [1411.56, 1416.56], "text": " it's never been easier to start a website today."}, {"timestamp": [1416.68, 1421.4], "text": " And so I think you could probably build that site"}, {"timestamp": [1421.4, 1425.0], "text": " that I had created for 15, 20%"}, {"timestamp": [1428.08, 1430.48], "text": " of the cost of what it cost me to do that"}, {"timestamp": [1431.52, 1434.16], "text": " in probably a half the time, if not even less."}, {"timestamp": [1434.16, 1435.28], "text": " The other is probably gonna be a little bit"}, {"timestamp": [1435.28, 1437.0], "text": " of engineering support that you would need"}, {"timestamp": [1437.0, 1439.24], "text": " to maybe integrate some pieces."}, {"timestamp": [1439.24, 1442.24], "text": " But for the most part, you could have this amazing,"}, {"timestamp": [1442.24, 1446.16], "text": " secure system built with the existing tools that are out there today."}, {"timestamp": [1447.6, 1451.6], "text": " Excellent. Yeah, like, and so I think that that's just such a fascinating,"}, {"timestamp": [1452.72, 1460.96], "text": " you know, point, which is, you know, if there are folks out there with, you know, historical,"}, {"timestamp": [1460.96, 1465.36], "text": " you know, like me, I'm talking with people, I'm reading books, I'm reading blog posts,"}, {"timestamp": [1465.36, 1470.64], "text": " watching videos, but things are changing, things are different today than even they were 10 years"}, {"timestamp": [1470.64, 1479.12], "text": " ago or five years ago. And so, just thanks for that perspective. I had a thought, but it ran off."}, {"timestamp": [1480.8, 1487.1], "text": " Let's see. Looking at my notes. Oh, yeah.. So kind of rewinding a little bit,"}, {"timestamp": [1487.1, 1491.12], "text": " you had some interesting stories of your time at PayPal,"}, {"timestamp": [1491.12, 1495.0], "text": " specifically as a leader of innovation."}, {"timestamp": [1495.0, 1498.68], "text": " So would you mind walking us through some of the stuff that you did at PayPal and"}, {"timestamp": [1498.68, 1503.02], "text": " what you learned about innovation in the tech space while you were there?"}, {"timestamp": [1503.02, 1508.06], "text": " Absolutely. Yeah. Look, I spent 10 and a half amazing years at PayPal."}, {"timestamp": [1508.06, 1511.5], "text": " So as SketchMaven, the business,"}, {"timestamp": [1511.5, 1514.66], "text": " the marketplace I was running was not kind of succeeding."}, {"timestamp": [1514.66, 1517.14], "text": " I actually, my wife, I had our first kid"}, {"timestamp": [1517.14, 1518.74], "text": " and it's kind of like,"}, {"timestamp": [1518.74, 1520.1], "text": " is this really what I want to be doing?"}, {"timestamp": [1520.1, 1522.14], "text": " I'm like, I kind of need a,"}, {"timestamp": [1522.14, 1524.18], "text": " I need to rethink about what I'm doing"}, {"timestamp": [1524.18, 1525.36], "text": " and get a steady paycheck,"}, {"timestamp": [1525.36, 1530.48], "text": " have money flowing in instead of flowing out for a while. Where should I go work?"}, {"timestamp": [1530.48, 1536.72], "text": " I live in San Jose, biking distance away from PayPal's headquarters."}, {"timestamp": [1537.28, 1542.4], "text": " And I had a bunch of friends that were there. I was a customer of it. I always liked..."}, {"timestamp": [1542.4, 1545.22], "text": " I signed up back when they were bribing you with money in the"}, {"timestamp": [1545.22, 1550.14], "text": " year 2000. As a consumer, you know, like literally, that was"}, {"timestamp": [1550.14, 1553.98], "text": " PayPal's when, you know, for people who don't know the story,"}, {"timestamp": [1553.98, 1556.78], "text": " one of the reasons why PayPal got to the scale it did, is"}, {"timestamp": [1556.78, 1559.98], "text": " because they were such flush, they were so flush with venture"}, {"timestamp": [1559.98, 1563.5], "text": " money. And they needed to build network effects for this to be"}, {"timestamp": [1563.52, 1568.2], "text": " effective buyers and sellers. So they were just giving and at"}, {"timestamp": [1568.2, 1572.24], "text": " one point it was up to 20 bucks a person just for signing up for"}, {"timestamp": [1572.24, 1576.4], "text": " an account. I think I got in around $10 when when I first"}, {"timestamp": [1576.4, 1580.32], "text": " got my PayPal account. But I was like I was a longtime customer."}, {"timestamp": [1580.56, 1587.26], "text": " And from my class at Berkeley, I literally knew 10 people that were working there."}, {"timestamp": [1587.26, 1589.54], "text": " And they all talked really favorably."}, {"timestamp": [1590.54, 1593.22], "text": " So 2011 rolls around, I'm looking for a job."}, {"timestamp": [1593.22, 1597.78], "text": " I see this opportunity pop open on the mobile team at PayPal"}, {"timestamp": [1597.78, 1600.08], "text": " and I'm like, oh, mobile has a future,"}, {"timestamp": [1601.1, 1602.54], "text": " which was a,"}, {"timestamp": [1605.0, 1606.56], "text": " I know now that sounds like,"}, {"timestamp": [1610.14, 1611.22], "text": " okay, of course, Mike, mobile has a future in 2022 when you're looking back at that."}, {"timestamp": [1611.22, 1613.98], "text": " But in 2011, even this was a few years"}, {"timestamp": [1613.98, 1617.34], "text": " after the iPhone still, there was some real traction,"}, {"timestamp": [1617.34, 1620.1], "text": " but there was still a lot of skepticism."}, {"timestamp": [1620.1, 1623.46], "text": " Just a tiny, tiny portion of transactions"}, {"timestamp": [1623.46, 1627.04], "text": " were being done at mobile devices, even at that time."}, {"timestamp": [1627.04, 1633.04], "text": " Even in a company like PayPal, I would have bet it was way under 1% of total payment volume"}, {"timestamp": [1633.04, 1641.28], "text": " was on mobile devices back in 2010, 2011. And so I had a really, I was like, well, let me go"}, {"timestamp": [1641.28, 1646.0], "text": " interview. Basically my interview at PayPal was talking about nothing"}, {"timestamp": [1646.0, 1648.88], "text": " but failures than I had at SketchMaven."}, {"timestamp": [1648.88, 1651.54], "text": " And because that was my only tech experience."}, {"timestamp": [1651.54, 1652.76], "text": " And look, I was very open."}, {"timestamp": [1652.76, 1654.76], "text": " I was talking about like what I learned."}, {"timestamp": [1654.76, 1656.22], "text": " I was very candid."}, {"timestamp": [1657.24, 1659.76], "text": " Another pro interview tip that I'll give to anybody"}, {"timestamp": [1659.76, 1661.36], "text": " is actually listen to the earnings."}, {"timestamp": [1661.36, 1663.36], "text": " If you're ever interviewing at a public company,"}, {"timestamp": [1663.36, 1665.92], "text": " whether you are going for a finance role"}, {"timestamp": [1665.92, 1669.8], "text": " or an engineer or a lawyer or whatever,"}, {"timestamp": [1669.8, 1672.12], "text": " listen to the earnings call beforehand"}, {"timestamp": [1672.12, 1676.16], "text": " because 98% of employees don't listen to earnings calls."}, {"timestamp": [1676.16, 1678.4], "text": " And if you listen to an earnings call,"}, {"timestamp": [1678.4, 1680.84], "text": " you will hear directly from the CEO and CFO"}, {"timestamp": [1680.84, 1684.68], "text": " and others in the company, what they really care about,"}, {"timestamp": [1684.68, 1686.04], "text": " what are the pressing things."}, {"timestamp": [1686.04, 1688.64], "text": " And you will actually have in some way more insight"}, {"timestamp": [1688.64, 1690.68], "text": " than the other people that you're talking to."}, {"timestamp": [1690.68, 1695.38], "text": " And just by doing that painful couple hour exercise,"}, {"timestamp": [1695.38, 1698.08], "text": " maybe listen to the last two earnings calls,"}, {"timestamp": [1698.08, 1701.2], "text": " you will have a whole new insight"}, {"timestamp": [1701.2, 1704.96], "text": " that it will almost be like a superpower that you will have."}, {"timestamp": [1704.96, 1705.02], "text": " Just being able to kind of talk about some of these things that the person working there is like, whole new insight that it will almost be like a superpower that you will have."}, {"timestamp": [1705.02, 1707.88], "text": " Just being able to kind of talk about some of these things"}, {"timestamp": [1707.88, 1709.08], "text": " that the person working there is like,"}, {"timestamp": [1709.08, 1710.44], "text": " how did you know about that?"}, {"timestamp": [1710.44, 1712.88], "text": " Well, it's a public company, it's on the earnings call."}, {"timestamp": [1712.88, 1716.02], "text": " So anyway, pro tip for anybody interviewing."}, {"timestamp": [1717.92, 1720.78], "text": " But yeah, so whatever reason they gave me a job"}, {"timestamp": [1720.78, 1724.04], "text": " I was dangerously unqualified for in analytics."}, {"timestamp": [1724.04, 1728.4], "text": " And it was an"}, {"timestamp": [1728.4, 1733.52], "text": " amazing ride there. I had job after job that I was completely not qualified for, but I just"}, {"timestamp": [1733.52, 1740.32], "text": " wanted to try things out. I was always ambitious. I always wanted to do what's best for the customer,"}, {"timestamp": [1740.32, 1746.88], "text": " what's best for the team, even if it wasn't in my job description. And I think I'm in some ways, maybe I've built up a little bit of a reputation"}, {"timestamp": [1746.88, 1749.32], "text": " for doing that within the company."}, {"timestamp": [1749.32, 1753.2], "text": " And fast forward a few years,"}, {"timestamp": [1753.2, 1756.0], "text": " we were splitting from eBay."}, {"timestamp": [1756.0, 1759.52], "text": " So at the time I joined PayPal was actually owned by eBay."}, {"timestamp": [1759.52, 1763.64], "text": " 2015, Carl Icahn comes in,"}, {"timestamp": [1763.64, 1766.56], "text": " buys up a bunch of eBay stock saying, hey, you are going to be worth"}, {"timestamp": [1766.56, 1773.28], "text": " more separates. And, you know, eBay management fights it, fights it, fights it. And finally,"}, {"timestamp": [1773.28, 1777.44], "text": " one day we come into work and say, never mind, we're going to split into two companies. Like,"}, {"timestamp": [1777.44, 1783.04], "text": " whoa, that's weird. So when that happens, PayPal has to create all these functions and so forth."}, {"timestamp": [1783.04, 1786.92], "text": " And I was doing a lot of things which we could get to in a bit that were pretty innovative"}, {"timestamp": [1786.92, 1789.08], "text": " and related to innovation"}, {"timestamp": [1789.08, 1791.64], "text": " and had a just really unique opportunity"}, {"timestamp": [1791.64, 1794.92], "text": " to kind of create a very small innovation function"}, {"timestamp": [1794.92, 1796.72], "text": " but be innovation function"}, {"timestamp": [1796.72, 1799.36], "text": " for what the new company was going to be."}, {"timestamp": [1799.36, 1803.2], "text": " And so that's kind of how I got involved"}, {"timestamp": [1803.2, 1804.44], "text": " in innovation at PayPal."}, {"timestamp": [1804.44, 1807.52], "text": " And that was like my last five, six years there"}, {"timestamp": [1807.52, 1809.32], "text": " was all within that same job,"}, {"timestamp": [1809.32, 1811.44], "text": " kind of defining what innovation,"}, {"timestamp": [1811.44, 1813.12], "text": " the culture of innovation for the company,"}, {"timestamp": [1813.12, 1815.64], "text": " looking at new products and new technologies"}, {"timestamp": [1815.64, 1820.28], "text": " that are emerging and really working with employees"}, {"timestamp": [1820.28, 1822.78], "text": " across the company on building all that stuff out."}, {"timestamp": [1824.8, 1826.2], "text": " Wonderful, wonderful story."}, {"timestamp": [1826.2, 1830.2], "text": " Yeah, and it sounds like it was just a really fascinating time."}, {"timestamp": [1830.2, 1832.7], "text": " Like, you know, I've learned, I learned a couple,"}, {"timestamp": [1832.7, 1833.6], "text": " a couple interesting things."}, {"timestamp": [1833.6, 1836.3], "text": " Like I had, I didn't, I did not know that Carl Icahn"}, {"timestamp": [1836.3, 1838.7], "text": " was the one who came in and said, let's split this up."}, {"timestamp": [1838.7, 1841.3], "text": " And that, you know, cause you'd think like"}, {"timestamp": [1841.3, 1843.6], "text": " from an outsider perspective, like eBay is this big,"}, {"timestamp": [1843.6, 1845.26], "text": " powerful tech company, like why would they allow this to be spun out? But it was like, someone outsider perspective, like eBay is this big powerful tech company, like"}, {"timestamp": [1845.26, 1849.78], "text": " why would they allow this to be spun out? But it was like someone else said, no, if"}, {"timestamp": [1849.78, 1853.42], "text": " you grow apart, you can be more valuable. So that I mean, that in and of itself is a"}, {"timestamp": [1853.42, 1858.94], "text": " little bit innovative. But one thing I will say is Carl Icahn was right. Like, I mean,"}, {"timestamp": [1858.94, 1868.64], "text": " it's like, you know, as much as we don't like to give credit to, you know, and often deservedly so, to like financial corporate raider types and so forth,"}, {"timestamp": [1868.64, 1869.76], "text": " he was absolutely right."}, {"timestamp": [1869.76, 1871.18], "text": " Like when it splits,"}, {"timestamp": [1872.44, 1873.68], "text": " when it was clear that was happening,"}, {"timestamp": [1873.68, 1876.12], "text": " like PayPal is now, I don't know what it is exactly,"}, {"timestamp": [1876.12, 1878.48], "text": " probably worth at least double what eBay is."}, {"timestamp": [1878.48, 1879.8], "text": " At one point it was way more,"}, {"timestamp": [1879.8, 1882.48], "text": " but things have all been kind of trending down."}, {"timestamp": [1883.44, 1887.84], "text": " But like, I think that was, it was pretty clear that both companies,"}, {"timestamp": [1887.84, 1892.72], "text": " I think, were actually stronger being able to focus on these different things. And PayPal could"}, {"timestamp": [1892.72, 1897.28], "text": " actually, as they just have done, can do things with Amazon and so forth. When it was part of"}, {"timestamp": [1897.28, 1902.56], "text": " eBay, it really couldn't do that. eBay has even done things for their own payment systems and so"}, {"timestamp": [1902.56, 1905.28], "text": " forth. So each company now operates truly"}, {"timestamp": [1905.28, 1912.16], "text": " independently years later. So yes, Carl Icahn was right. Yeah, sorry. Excellent. Yeah, no, great,"}, {"timestamp": [1912.16, 1916.32], "text": " great story and great point. Like you never know how things are going to turn out and lessons"}, {"timestamp": [1916.32, 1921.44], "text": " learned, you move on and it sounds like both benefited. That's not always the case, of course."}, {"timestamp": [1922.24, 1925.84], "text": " That's not always the case, of course. But you said that you spent the last five years or so"}, {"timestamp": [1927.4, 1930.04], "text": " at PayPal focusing on innovation."}, {"timestamp": [1930.04, 1932.54], "text": " And a couple of things that you mentioned"}, {"timestamp": [1932.54, 1935.92], "text": " that you did to focus on that was you talked to people a lot"}, {"timestamp": [1935.92, 1937.18], "text": " across the whole organization,"}, {"timestamp": [1937.18, 1940.16], "text": " probably outside of the organization too."}, {"timestamp": [1940.16, 1941.84], "text": " And you worked in the mobile space."}, {"timestamp": [1941.84, 1944.84], "text": " So if you could, like paint us a picture"}, {"timestamp": [1944.84, 1946.96], "text": " for me and the audience,"}, {"timestamp": [1946.96, 1950.08], "text": " if someone wants to be innovative or be in that space,"}, {"timestamp": [1950.08, 1951.72], "text": " what is the mindset you need?"}, {"timestamp": [1951.72, 1953.14], "text": " What are the behaviors you need?"}, {"timestamp": [1953.14, 1955.96], "text": " Like, just like, let's take a deep dive"}, {"timestamp": [1955.96, 1959.32], "text": " into the innovative brain and from your perspective."}, {"timestamp": [1959.32, 1960.24], "text": " Oh, I love this."}, {"timestamp": [1960.24, 1963.12], "text": " This is where I really enjoy talking."}, {"timestamp": [1964.14, 1966.0], "text": " So what does the innovative brain look like?"}, {"timestamp": [1966.0, 1967.52], "text": " The innovative brain first and foremost"}, {"timestamp": [1967.52, 1968.88], "text": " is just really curious."}, {"timestamp": [1968.88, 1970.96], "text": " It is constantly asking why."}, {"timestamp": [1970.96, 1974.76], "text": " It is the brain in many ways of a six-year-old."}, {"timestamp": [1974.76, 1976.62], "text": " Just like, why does that work that way?"}, {"timestamp": [1976.62, 1978.52], "text": " Why is it that we, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [1979.76, 1983.24], "text": " you know, like, why do some clothes have tags on it"}, {"timestamp": [1983.24, 1984.56], "text": " but other ones are printed on?"}, {"timestamp": [1984.56, 1985.56], "text": " Is it a cost thing?"}, {"timestamp": [1985.56, 1986.4], "text": " Is it whatever?"}, {"timestamp": [1986.4, 1988.2], "text": " Just being naturally curious about everything"}, {"timestamp": [1988.2, 1990.22], "text": " that you see out there in the world."}, {"timestamp": [1991.68, 1996.68], "text": " And then, you know, so part, and I had mentioned before,"}, {"timestamp": [1996.72, 1999.96], "text": " like, you want a big funnel of ideas,"}, {"timestamp": [1999.96, 2002.12], "text": " because you never know what is going to hit."}, {"timestamp": [2003.4, 2008.0], "text": " Thomas Edison, I love to talk about Thomas Edison,"}, {"timestamp": [2008.0, 2014.08], "text": " like, you know, he has like 1100 patents that he had, and we know incandescent light bulb"}, {"timestamp": [2014.08, 2018.84], "text": " and phonograph and all those things that are kind of famous now. If you go down the long"}, {"timestamp": [2018.84, 2023.36], "text": " tail of those patents, and mind you, these are the things that they actually were granted"}, {"timestamp": [2023.36, 2029.6], "text": " patents by the USPTO. We're not even seeing the ideas that were rejected, that never even, they're like,"}, {"timestamp": [2029.6, 2033.76], "text": " oh, this is ridiculous, don't file on it. When you start to go down the long tail of patents that"}, {"timestamp": [2034.56, 2039.6], "text": " Edison has, there's one specifically. Anybody could go out there and Google, like,"}, {"timestamp": [2039.6, 2045.2], "text": " Thomas Edison baby doll. And you will see, like, he built this talking, have you seen this, David?"}, {"timestamp": [2045.2, 2046.48], "text": " Yeah, it's so creepy."}, {"timestamp": [2046.48, 2053.04], "text": " The talking, choreographed baby doll. And this thing is horrific. It is, like, it's evil. It is,"}, {"timestamp": [2053.04, 2057.6], "text": " like, and it has, like, this weird wax cylinder thing that you play, and it's supposed to talk"}, {"timestamp": [2057.6, 2061.84], "text": " to a kid. And it's, like, what the, it is the most god awful thing. And you're, like, oh, yeah,"}, {"timestamp": [2061.84, 2068.84], "text": " that's the light bulb guy. But you know what? like, who knows what that led to, like, again, I mean, he's just always"}, {"timestamp": [2068.84, 2073.0], "text": " thinking of ideas, and they're not all going to be, they're not all gonna be home runs,"}, {"timestamp": [2073.0, 2078.36], "text": " but like, when you're coming up with ideas, the first thing to I'm gonna use a baseball,"}, {"timestamp": [2078.36, 2084.04], "text": " another baseball analogy here, but like, you, it batting average does not matter."}, {"timestamp": [2084.04, 2085.24], "text": " Like that is not what matters. So batting average does not matter. Like that is not what matters."}, {"timestamp": [2085.24, 2086.4], "text": " So batting average for everyone."}, {"timestamp": [2086.4, 2088.4], "text": " So in baseball, you come up to the plate,"}, {"timestamp": [2088.4, 2091.72], "text": " you wanna hit the ball, get it into play and get on base."}, {"timestamp": [2091.72, 2093.28], "text": " That is called a hit."}, {"timestamp": [2093.28, 2096.8], "text": " All the times you don't do that is called an out,"}, {"timestamp": [2096.8, 2098.18], "text": " relatively speaking."}, {"timestamp": [2098.18, 2100.68], "text": " So if you're a great baseball player,"}, {"timestamp": [2100.68, 2104.4], "text": " 30% of the time, you're going to be able to get a hit"}, {"timestamp": [2104.4, 2105.8], "text": " of the times you're out there."}, {"timestamp": [2105.8, 2107.68], "text": " If you're a bad baseball player,"}, {"timestamp": [2107.68, 2111.6], "text": " 20% of the time or even 25% necessarily to do that."}, {"timestamp": [2113.44, 2115.72], "text": " But that's not the game that's being played here."}, {"timestamp": [2115.72, 2118.12], "text": " Nobody cares about that statistic"}, {"timestamp": [2118.12, 2120.4], "text": " in the world of innovation."}, {"timestamp": [2120.4, 2123.88], "text": " All that we care about is home runs and grand slams."}, {"timestamp": [2123.88, 2125.66], "text": " Like when you like basically hit it so hard"}, {"timestamp": [2125.66, 2127.86], "text": " it goes out of the entire stadium type stuff."}, {"timestamp": [2127.86, 2129.32], "text": " That is what matters."}, {"timestamp": [2130.22, 2135.22], "text": " And so to do that, if that is what is being measured,"}, {"timestamp": [2135.54, 2138.94], "text": " do we care if you did it in three at bats"}, {"timestamp": [2138.94, 2141.1], "text": " or 3000 at bats?"}, {"timestamp": [2141.1, 2147.28], "text": " If all that we're measuring for is home runs and we just want that's the only"}, {"timestamp": [2147.28, 2150.56], "text": " thing that we care about. Well, it doesn't actually matter how many times it took to"}, {"timestamp": [2150.56, 2157.2], "text": " do that. So that is something that is really even when I had my first innovation job, it"}, {"timestamp": [2157.2, 2162.44], "text": " was something with with my own manager at the time was something I really had to hammer"}, {"timestamp": [2162.44, 2166.58], "text": " home of like, we want to actually reward how many times"}, {"timestamp": [2166.58, 2168.62], "text": " people step up to the plate."}, {"timestamp": [2168.62, 2171.4], "text": " So we, you know, and I'm just gonna,"}, {"timestamp": [2171.4, 2172.34], "text": " it's not the only thing,"}, {"timestamp": [2172.34, 2175.02], "text": " but I'm gonna use patents as a proxy."}, {"timestamp": [2175.02, 2179.94], "text": " So within PayPal, the year before I joined,"}, {"timestamp": [2179.94, 2181.14], "text": " and again, we were part of eBay,"}, {"timestamp": [2181.14, 2182.48], "text": " so we had to parse it out."}, {"timestamp": [2183.9, 2187.12], "text": " I don't know, we maybe had three, 400 people"}, {"timestamp": [2187.12, 2190.46], "text": " submit patent ideas, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [2190.46, 2192.88], "text": " that were potentially patentable."}, {"timestamp": [2192.88, 2194.32], "text": " The first year I joined,"}, {"timestamp": [2194.32, 2196.4], "text": " I think we did like three or 4,000."}, {"timestamp": [2196.4, 2198.72], "text": " So it was like literally 10xing that."}, {"timestamp": [2199.94, 2202.44], "text": " And this was just trying to push this in the culture."}, {"timestamp": [2202.44, 2204.88], "text": " Now, was the quality of those ideas"}, {"timestamp": [2204.88, 2205.44], "text": " better than"}, {"timestamp": [2205.44, 2211.84], "text": " the year before? In aggregate, no. I mean, there are probably many more worse ideas in there."}, {"timestamp": [2211.84, 2216.08], "text": " But again, that's not what mattered. We wanted people just stepping up to the plate because you"}, {"timestamp": [2216.08, 2222.4], "text": " didn't know what kind of ridiculous idea might become something. I always joke, one inventor who"}, {"timestamp": [2222.4, 2225.84], "text": " kept on putting ideas for like edible silverware and things"}, {"timestamp": [2225.84, 2226.84], "text": " like that."}, {"timestamp": [2226.84, 2229.28], "text": " What does that have to do with PayPal or anything?"}, {"timestamp": [2229.28, 2230.28], "text": " Nothing."}, {"timestamp": [2230.28, 2233.44], "text": " But was that an acceptable idea for us to accept?"}, {"timestamp": [2233.44, 2234.44], "text": " Yes."}, {"timestamp": [2234.44, 2235.44], "text": " Yes."}, {"timestamp": [2235.44, 2238.16], "text": " Because it's just going through the ideation process."}, {"timestamp": [2238.16, 2242.16], "text": " Because we want, okay, that doesn't, here's some feedback on that."}, {"timestamp": [2242.16, 2246.04], "text": " Now iterate, improve, get better in the process and so forth."}, {"timestamp": [2246.04, 2250.6], "text": " So step one for innovation, be curious about the world,"}, {"timestamp": [2250.6, 2253.08], "text": " learn about the world, ask questions about the world."}, {"timestamp": [2253.08, 2254.64], "text": " Step two is just come up with ideas"}, {"timestamp": [2254.64, 2256.92], "text": " and couple up with as many as possible."}, {"timestamp": [2256.92, 2259.3], "text": " And it doesn't mean you have to be submitting these ideas"}, {"timestamp": [2259.3, 2261.28], "text": " anywhere."}, {"timestamp": [2261.28, 2263.08], "text": " There are some great sites like that,"}, {"timestamp": [2263.08, 2270.88], "text": " like notepad.com is a great one where you can just put like idea lists and things like that. I have used that for sure in the past"}, {"timestamp": [2271.36, 2274.08], "text": " Um, mostly I just put things into an evernote"}, {"timestamp": [2274.64, 2276.0], "text": " actually a whole"}, {"timestamp": [2276.0, 2282.08], "text": " Folder of evernote files I have and i'm like these are book ideas. These are business ideas. These are movie ideas"}, {"timestamp": [2282.24, 2285.4], "text": " I don't even know what these ideas are, but they're still ideas."}, {"timestamp": [2285.74, 2287.62], "text": " And those are kind of all the buckets I have."}, {"timestamp": [2287.62, 2288.88], "text": " And I just build that out."}, {"timestamp": [2289.6, 2294.96], "text": " And then when you're comfortably removed from those ideas, kind of take a step"}, {"timestamp": [2294.96, 2298.36], "text": " back and re-approach them and see which ones resonate with you."}, {"timestamp": [2299.0, 2304.84], "text": " And most likely what is going to happen is that not any one idea is going to"}, {"timestamp": [2304.84, 2306.4], "text": " resonate, but you're going to happen is that not any one idea is going to resonate, but you're"}, {"timestamp": [2306.4, 2309.6], "text": " going to see value in connecting ideas."}, {"timestamp": [2309.6, 2316.4], "text": " That this movie idea that you had, if you added it to this business idea, holy cow,"}, {"timestamp": [2316.4, 2317.4], "text": " that's really interesting."}, {"timestamp": [2317.4, 2319.76], "text": " What if you actually combine these?"}, {"timestamp": [2319.76, 2330.32], "text": " We used to do a trick when I had the innovation lab at PayPal where we would have people just write down ideas and topics, throw it into a hat on little scraps of paper, and then"}, {"timestamp": [2330.32, 2334.1], "text": " people would just pull out two of them at a time. And we're like, okay, given these"}, {"timestamp": [2334.1, 2338.54], "text": " two things, what can we make out of it? And we're going to spend five minutes on this."}, {"timestamp": [2338.54, 2341.64], "text": " We're going to brainstorm this, and then we're going to throw these away, and somebody's"}, {"timestamp": [2341.64, 2349.16], "text": " going to pick out two more random things. And it's just an old technique to be able to apply,"}, {"timestamp": [2352.28, 2353.48], "text": " again, so much of innovation"}, {"timestamp": [2353.48, 2355.52], "text": " is just taking two unrelated things"}, {"timestamp": [2355.52, 2358.16], "text": " and making it into something related, something powerful,"}, {"timestamp": [2358.16, 2360.32], "text": " something that no one has ever thought of before."}, {"timestamp": [2360.32, 2362.52], "text": " And that's just one little hack to do that."}, {"timestamp": [2364.2, 2365.16], "text": " Wonderful."}, {"timestamp": [2365.16, 2366.74], "text": " Thanks so much for that deep dive"}, {"timestamp": [2366.74, 2369.82], "text": " into the innovative mindset."}, {"timestamp": [2369.82, 2373.98], "text": " And so queuing off of that, let's fast forward to today."}, {"timestamp": [2373.98, 2376.38], "text": " And of course we're in a,"}, {"timestamp": [2376.38, 2378.42], "text": " hopefully a golden age of innovation"}, {"timestamp": [2378.42, 2380.74], "text": " with things like generative AI,"}, {"timestamp": [2380.74, 2382.38], "text": " large language models, that sort of stuff."}, {"timestamp": [2382.38, 2385.5], "text": " So what do you see that's happening today?"}, {"timestamp": [2385.5, 2388.86], "text": " What has caught your attention in terms of innovations"}, {"timestamp": [2388.86, 2391.08], "text": " and what do you think it means"}, {"timestamp": [2391.08, 2393.24], "text": " in terms of technology or business"}, {"timestamp": [2393.24, 2395.22], "text": " or even the way that we live?"}, {"timestamp": [2396.04, 2399.04], "text": " Yeah, I think the world is going to change more now"}, {"timestamp": [2399.04, 2402.66], "text": " than at any other point in my life."}, {"timestamp": [2403.66, 2409.84], "text": " I was fortunate enough to start the University of Illinois in 1995,"}, {"timestamp": [2411.04, 2419.44], "text": " just as the Netscape team was there building the browser and so forth and all the things that came"}, {"timestamp": [2419.44, 2424.8], "text": " from that. I had never used the internet in my life before I got to college. I got there and"}, {"timestamp": [2424.04, 2429.0], "text": " I had never used the internet in my life before I got to college. I got there and literally my first day, I'm like, what the hell is this?"}, {"timestamp": [2429.0, 2430.28], "text": " I don't understand this."}, {"timestamp": [2430.28, 2433.36], "text": " I don't even know what this is, but this is amazing."}, {"timestamp": [2433.36, 2438.36], "text": " There's all these weird little, there's words and if I click on an underlying word, it will"}, {"timestamp": [2438.36, 2441.94], "text": " take me somewhere else where I could learn more about that word."}, {"timestamp": [2441.94, 2449.36], "text": " Or sometimes I click and it's like, what is that what is that it's hyperlinked with that like I had no knowledge of any of"}, {"timestamp": [2449.36, 2455.6], "text": " this stuff and joining like when I was at such a time where I was open to new"}, {"timestamp": [2455.6, 2460.88], "text": " learnings and memories like it was clear to me probably within a few weeks and"}, {"timestamp": [2460.88, 2469.6], "text": " this is going to change the world and with what is happening today in AI and generative AI,"}, {"timestamp": [2471.16, 2476.16], "text": " like this is, I feel as giddy now as I was"}, {"timestamp": [2476.6, 2480.46], "text": " when I was 18 years old and learning about these things"}, {"timestamp": [2480.46, 2483.04], "text": " and just seeing what is possible."}, {"timestamp": [2484.2, 2487.12], "text": " Let me, David, if I can, let me just give my first"}, {"timestamp": [2487.12, 2495.92], "text": " experience I ever had with GPT-3. So one of the things I've done is last year, yeah, so it'd been"}, {"timestamp": [2495.92, 2506.78], "text": " 2000 and, I'm sorry, 2021, I went back and started to get an MFA in writing."}, {"timestamp": [2506.78, 2509.02], "text": " Always been passionate about writing."}, {"timestamp": [2509.02, 2512.74], "text": " I read like 50 books a year."}, {"timestamp": [2512.74, 2514.3], "text": " And I'm always like, yeah, I could do that."}, {"timestamp": [2514.3, 2517.3], "text": " But when I grew up, I was more of a science and math kid."}, {"timestamp": [2517.3, 2519.78], "text": " And English was kind of deemphasized."}, {"timestamp": [2519.78, 2522.66], "text": " And I was kind of always afraid of that and everything."}, {"timestamp": [2522.66, 2523.82], "text": " But I'm like, do you know what?"}, {"timestamp": [2523.82, 2524.82], "text": " I'm going to do this."}, {"timestamp": [2524.82, 2527.88], "text": " I want to really learn how to become a great writer."}, {"timestamp": [2527.88, 2529.98], "text": " When I was there, it was pretty clear to me"}, {"timestamp": [2529.98, 2532.88], "text": " like where I had a competitive advantage"}, {"timestamp": [2532.88, 2536.18], "text": " was combining like my technical background"}, {"timestamp": [2536.18, 2539.18], "text": " and know-how with this writing skill that I'm building."}, {"timestamp": [2539.18, 2542.82], "text": " And I very quickly became focused on,"}, {"timestamp": [2542.82, 2545.92], "text": " well, how can I use AI to do that?"}, {"timestamp": [2545.92, 2553.52], "text": " So I used GPT-3 for the first time on a writing project, which I fully disclosed, and I love"}, {"timestamp": [2553.52, 2557.04], "text": " to get into disclosures and things like that."}, {"timestamp": [2557.04, 2567.0], "text": " But for the very first class I was taking, I was writing a little, almost kind of like an audio drama sketch comedy type thing with all these"}, {"timestamp": [2567.0, 2572.84], "text": " little skits all about the presidents. I'm a total nerd. Like, yes, I was writing audio"}, {"timestamp": [2572.84, 2577.96], "text": " sketch comedy about the presidents and had all these little sketches and so forth. And"}, {"timestamp": [2577.96, 2582.24], "text": " one of them I wanted to write was about the president of the future. And it kind of dawned"}, {"timestamp": [2582.24, 2590.36], "text": " on me, I'm like, oh, what better way to do present of the future than to actually have an AI write part of that. So I remember I took in"}, {"timestamp": [2590.36, 2596.2], "text": " and I disclosed every single bit of what I did in my writing. I took the first two lines"}, {"timestamp": [2596.2, 2607.4], "text": " from Obama's second inaugural address. And I think I added maybe three lines of my own so it's kind of five minutes or sorry five sentences of material"}, {"timestamp": [2607.76, 2609.76], "text": " to start and"}, {"timestamp": [2610.52, 2614.68], "text": " and I kind of hit just hit go and just to see what would happen and"}, {"timestamp": [2615.28, 2619.28], "text": " I remember just being amazed. I'm like, oh my god, it's"}, {"timestamp": [2620.04, 2626.12], "text": " Recognizing that this is a presidential speech. It is kind of carrying on the same cadence"}, {"timestamp": [2626.12, 2631.22], "text": " It is like recognizing that it is a computer that is writing this at some point in the future"}, {"timestamp": [2631.22, 2636.04], "text": " Like it is carrying this on and it was doing it in ways that I never would have imagined"}, {"timestamp": [2636.36, 2641.24], "text": " And I remember like going through this exercise and so many times like my wife was working upstairs"}, {"timestamp": [2641.24, 2646.56], "text": " I think the kids were in bed already. I'm just running upstairs. I'm like, look at this, look at this."}, {"timestamp": [2646.56, 2648.36], "text": " I didn't write this."}, {"timestamp": [2648.36, 2649.96], "text": " I was so excited."}, {"timestamp": [2649.96, 2654.76], "text": " So I was just enamored by what was coming out of this thing."}, {"timestamp": [2654.76, 2656.16], "text": " And I kept doing it."}, {"timestamp": [2656.16, 2657.62], "text": " And, you know, and it actually,"}, {"timestamp": [2657.62, 2659.4], "text": " it was a little bit glitchy too,"}, {"timestamp": [2659.4, 2660.8], "text": " but I'm like, well, this is perfect."}, {"timestamp": [2660.8, 2662.86], "text": " Like that's an angle that I never even thought of."}, {"timestamp": [2662.86, 2666.72], "text": " Like, what if giving the inaugural AI computer"}, {"timestamp": [2666.72, 2674.52], "text": " president is glitchy? I did this whole speech and used text to voice type program to do"}, {"timestamp": [2674.52, 2685.52], "text": " that and boom, I made that. That was my first time using GPT-3. it was incredible. And so after that, I've just been like,"}, {"timestamp": [2685.52, 2689.44], "text": " that to me is the same moments where I clicked on a link"}, {"timestamp": [2689.44, 2692.8], "text": " on my first day of college and it took me somewhere else."}, {"timestamp": [2692.8, 2695.32], "text": " Like it was just completely, my mind was blown"}, {"timestamp": [2695.32, 2698.32], "text": " and I'm like, this is going to change everything."}, {"timestamp": [2698.32, 2701.6], "text": " Fast forward a year plus to where we're at today,"}, {"timestamp": [2701.6, 2704.16], "text": " like good God, with like the things that we could do"}, {"timestamp": [2704.16, 2705.44], "text": " with Chad GPT, like I was literally with like the things that we can do with chat GPT."}, {"timestamp": [2705.44, 2707.64], "text": " Like I was literally just talking to my kid"}, {"timestamp": [2707.64, 2709.28], "text": " in the car this morning."}, {"timestamp": [2709.28, 2712.92], "text": " My kid does a podcast on a game called Brawl Stars."}, {"timestamp": [2712.92, 2714.48], "text": " He's 11, he does this."}, {"timestamp": [2714.48, 2716.96], "text": " I'm like, why don't you interview chat GPT"}, {"timestamp": [2716.96, 2720.28], "text": " for your podcast about Brawl Stars?"}, {"timestamp": [2720.28, 2721.8], "text": " And he's like, you can do that?"}, {"timestamp": [2721.8, 2724.08], "text": " I'm like, sure, like, do that."}, {"timestamp": [2724.08, 2725.52], "text": " We can do this together. And like, you can do that? I'm like, sure, like, do that. We can do this together."}, {"timestamp": [2725.52, 2727.72], "text": " And like, you're going to have this whole interview,"}, {"timestamp": [2727.72, 2731.6], "text": " I'm sure just putting chat GPT in the title of your podcast"}, {"timestamp": [2731.6, 2733.48], "text": " is going to get you a bunch more clicks and everything."}, {"timestamp": [2733.48, 2735.4], "text": " I'm like, wow."}, {"timestamp": [2735.4, 2738.84], "text": " And so that's going to be his project this afternoon."}, {"timestamp": [2738.84, 2742.32], "text": " There's just so much that can be done here."}, {"timestamp": [2742.32, 2745.92], "text": " And we're just, just scratching the surface of this."}, {"timestamp": [2745.92, 2747.74], "text": " So like, that's why like, this is going,"}, {"timestamp": [2747.74, 2751.44], "text": " I truly, truly believe what we're going to see with AI"}, {"timestamp": [2752.4, 2755.76], "text": " and generative consumer-friendly AI"}, {"timestamp": [2755.76, 2759.66], "text": " is going to be more transformative, I believe,"}, {"timestamp": [2759.66, 2762.56], "text": " than the internet itself was."}, {"timestamp": [2762.56, 2763.82], "text": " Absolutely."}, {"timestamp": [2763.82, 2765.12], "text": " Yeah, I believe that."}, {"timestamp": [2765.12, 2765.84], "text": " I feel that."}, {"timestamp": [2765.84, 2769.0], "text": " And just hearing your perspective,"}, {"timestamp": [2769.0, 2774.36], "text": " first time using web browsers, seeing the internet,"}, {"timestamp": [2774.36, 2778.44], "text": " and it's 1995, so fast forward more than 20 years."}, {"timestamp": [2778.44, 2780.48], "text": " Imagine where we'll be in 20 years."}, {"timestamp": [2780.48, 2783.72], "text": " So I have a few follow-up questions regarding,"}, {"timestamp": [2783.72, 2785.52], "text": " obviously, no one can predict the future."}, {"timestamp": [2785.52, 2790.28], "text": " Like, you know, one of the stories that you told me about PayPal was the first time someone"}, {"timestamp": [2790.28, 2793.2], "text": " bought a car with PayPal Mobile."}, {"timestamp": [2793.2, 2796.68], "text": " You couldn't have predicted that from the invention of the iPhone, right?"}, {"timestamp": [2796.68, 2800.08], "text": " But then, in hindsight, it is kind of obvious."}, {"timestamp": [2800.08, 2807.04], "text": " So could you tell us a little bit about that story in terms of combining new ideas and innovating"}, {"timestamp": [2807.52, 2809.92], "text": " and what can you predict, what can't you predict?"}, {"timestamp": [2809.92, 2813.28], "text": " And what do you see, I guess what's the low hanging fruit"}, {"timestamp": [2813.28, 2814.34], "text": " with generative AI?"}, {"timestamp": [2814.34, 2815.86], "text": " How do you think it's gonna change first"}, {"timestamp": [2815.86, 2817.96], "text": " and in an optimistic future,"}, {"timestamp": [2817.96, 2822.96], "text": " what's gonna be the good timeline of progress?"}, {"timestamp": [2823.56, 2828.2], "text": " Yeah, yeah, and then we can get into the evil timeline later as well."}, {"timestamp": [2828.2, 2833.4], "text": " So to tell the story, I remember back when I joined in 2011,"}, {"timestamp": [2833.4, 2835.16], "text": " mobile was still kind of weird."}, {"timestamp": [2835.16, 2837.32], "text": " It was still a fringe thing."}, {"timestamp": [2837.32, 2841.48], "text": " It was its own unit within PayPal."}, {"timestamp": [2841.48, 2844.76], "text": " It was a very, very small part of the business and so forth."}, {"timestamp": [2844.76, 2846.64], "text": " And again, we were owned by eBay at the time."}, {"timestamp": [2846.64, 2849.12], "text": " So eBay had a similar mobile team,"}, {"timestamp": [2850.28, 2852.12], "text": " but eBay had a whole bunch of other"}, {"timestamp": [2852.12, 2854.8], "text": " like kind of mobile focus one-off businesses."}, {"timestamp": [2854.8, 2856.92], "text": " One was called Red Laser,"}, {"timestamp": [2856.92, 2861.2], "text": " which sole purpose was for scanning QR codes."}, {"timestamp": [2861.2, 2863.84], "text": " Like, so before, like back in 2011,"}, {"timestamp": [2863.84, 2865.68], "text": " your phone, if you held up the camera would"}, {"timestamp": [2865.68, 2869.92], "text": " not recognize a QR code, you actually had to have a QR code reader and Red Laser was"}, {"timestamp": [2869.92, 2875.44], "text": " one of them. And there are a bunch of other like little businesses within eBay. And, you"}, {"timestamp": [2875.44, 2883.0], "text": " know, to the team's credit, like we, I remember, you know, not long after being there, we all"}, {"timestamp": [2883.0, 2885.86], "text": " would kind of meet and just talk."}, {"timestamp": [2885.86, 2888.2], "text": " Like all these businesses would just all meet together"}, {"timestamp": [2888.2, 2889.32], "text": " in a big conference room and just like,"}, {"timestamp": [2889.32, 2890.16], "text": " hey, what are you seeing?"}, {"timestamp": [2890.16, 2891.42], "text": " What are you finding?"}, {"timestamp": [2891.42, 2893.52], "text": " And it was actually eBay,"}, {"timestamp": [2893.52, 2895.32], "text": " it was on the eBay side of things."}, {"timestamp": [2896.92, 2899.38], "text": " They were like, we sold a car on mobile."}, {"timestamp": [2900.4, 2902.44], "text": " It was like, one of those things like, really?"}, {"timestamp": [2902.44, 2905.32], "text": " Like somebody just bought a car on a phone?"}, {"timestamp": [2905.32, 2907.2], "text": " Like, you can do that?"}, {"timestamp": [2907.2, 2911.48], "text": " Like, I mean, even to us, it seemed kind of novel,"}, {"timestamp": [2911.48, 2913.76], "text": " but also a little bit of a harbinger"}, {"timestamp": [2913.76, 2916.28], "text": " for like, things are changing."}, {"timestamp": [2916.28, 2918.3], "text": " Somebody just bought a car on this."}, {"timestamp": [2918.3, 2922.32], "text": " Like, that's a pretty big deal for where we might be going."}, {"timestamp": [2922.32, 2924.96], "text": " If somebody is willing to make that type of a purchase"}, {"timestamp": [2924.96, 2925.0], "text": " on this device, what does that say? Is this just a one-off fringe? big deal for where we might be going. If somebody is willing to make that type of a purchase"}, {"timestamp": [2925.0, 2927.16], "text": " on this device, what does that say?"}, {"timestamp": [2927.16, 2928.6], "text": " Is this just a one-off fringe?"}, {"timestamp": [2928.6, 2931.84], "text": " Is this somebody, you know, using their Bitcoin"}, {"timestamp": [2931.84, 2934.44], "text": " to buy a pizza and like, well, nobody's really going"}, {"timestamp": [2934.44, 2936.0], "text": " to replicate that anytime soon,"}, {"timestamp": [2936.0, 2938.8], "text": " or is this something new and something special?"}, {"timestamp": [2938.8, 2941.9], "text": " And, you know, those are the kind of things"}, {"timestamp": [2941.9, 2943.76], "text": " where you just start to see the trend,"}, {"timestamp": [2943.76, 2947.52], "text": " you start to see the volume, you start to see the change in behaviors,"}, {"timestamp": [2947.52, 2949.52], "text": " and you know you're onto something."}, {"timestamp": [2949.52, 2953.68], "text": " And soon enough, mobile is not a weird standalone unit."}, {"timestamp": [2953.68, 2957.6], "text": " Mobile is now the cool team to kind of be in the company."}, {"timestamp": [2957.6, 2961.36], "text": " And then eventually, mobile is not even a team anymore in the company."}, {"timestamp": [2961.36, 2964.24], "text": " It's just everything needs to be made mobile first."}, {"timestamp": [2964.24, 2969.76], "text": " You know, much credit to Meta and Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg,"}, {"timestamp": [2969.8, 2974.8], "text": " when he was working on his S1 and his executive letter"}, {"timestamp": [2975.48, 2978.38], "text": " at the beginning of the S1, when Facebook was going public."}, {"timestamp": [2980.36, 2983.36], "text": " Everyone was like, Facebook is gonna get killed by mobile."}, {"timestamp": [2983.36, 2985.28], "text": " We're moving in this mobile direction, but Facebook's gonna get killed by mobile. Like we're moving in this mobile direction,"}, {"timestamp": [2985.28, 2986.64], "text": " but Facebook's gonna get killed."}, {"timestamp": [2986.64, 2988.6], "text": " How are you going to serve ads on mobile?"}, {"timestamp": [2988.6, 2990.52], "text": " This real estate is not big enough."}, {"timestamp": [2990.52, 2992.04], "text": " It's just not going to make sense."}, {"timestamp": [2992.04, 2993.34], "text": " It's not going to work."}, {"timestamp": [2994.6, 2996.12], "text": " He pivoted that entire company."}, {"timestamp": [2996.12, 2997.28], "text": " I mean, cause this was like,"}, {"timestamp": [2997.28, 3000.12], "text": " this was the standard consensus that like,"}, {"timestamp": [3000.12, 3002.68], "text": " hey, like mobile doesn't work for advertising."}, {"timestamp": [3002.68, 3005.36], "text": " Facebook, when people move to mobile, you get it."}, {"timestamp": [3011.36, 3016.64], "text": " And Zuckerberg said, okay, I'm going to write this whole thing on mobile. I'm moving everyone to mobile. Like, you know, they had some, you know, HTML5, they had some hiccups and so forth,"}, {"timestamp": [3016.64, 3021.28], "text": " as you will, when you're doing a major pivot. But he moved them in the right direction. Now,"}, {"timestamp": [3021.28, 3027.68], "text": " I think he's trying to move them again with meta and the metaverse, clearly, whether or not that's the right direction, I guess, will be seen. I think"}, {"timestamp": [3027.68, 3032.8], "text": " there's still a lot of skepticism, but I guarantee you, he's thinking back to 10 years ago, I was"}, {"timestamp": [3032.8, 3039.28], "text": " right. And he clearly was 10 years ago. So this is the file he has in his head. And so because he was"}, {"timestamp": [3039.28, 3046.72], "text": " right 10 years ago, probably makes it even harder to prove him that he might be wrong, whether or not the metaverse may or may not"}, {"timestamp": [3046.72, 3048.64], "text": " be the right decision for Facebook."}, {"timestamp": [3049.9, 3052.8], "text": " Yeah, yeah, no, you're absolutely right."}, {"timestamp": [3052.8, 3055.36], "text": " And obviously Facebook or Meta's stock price"}, {"timestamp": [3055.36, 3057.3], "text": " is reflecting a tremendous amount of,"}, {"timestamp": [3057.3, 3059.2], "text": " let's say investor skepticism, right?"}, {"timestamp": [3059.2, 3060.92], "text": " Yeah, yeah."}, {"timestamp": [3060.92, 3062.88], "text": " But you know, so there's those pivotal moments, right?"}, {"timestamp": [3062.88, 3067.64], "text": " Where the industry insiders sense that things have changed."}, {"timestamp": [3067.64, 3070.44], "text": " And you mentioned ChatGPT and even, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [3070.44, 3073.04], "text": " your 11 year old was like, wait, you can do that?"}, {"timestamp": [3073.04, 3076.84], "text": " And, you know, I had that moment with ChatGPT"}, {"timestamp": [3076.84, 3078.8], "text": " where I was like, this is just another chat bot."}, {"timestamp": [3078.8, 3081.9], "text": " And then I saw that it passed a practice bar exam."}, {"timestamp": [3082.92, 3086.0], "text": " Someone used it to do all kinds of stuff."}, {"timestamp": [3086.0, 3090.0], "text": " I don't know if anyone has diagnosed medical cases yet,"}, {"timestamp": [3090.0, 3094.0], "text": " but people have used it for all kinds of things that you wouldn't think are"}, {"timestamp": [3094.0, 3098.0], "text": " possible yet, but then I use it to build"}, {"timestamp": [3098.0, 3102.0], "text": " not a web app yet, that's one of my next projects, but it's like, this"}, {"timestamp": [3102.0, 3105.12], "text": " thing is a force multiplier for any coder, let alone whatever"}, {"timestamp": [3105.12, 3111.12], "text": " else is out there that either in version one that it can do or subsequent versions. I think this is"}, {"timestamp": [3111.12, 3119.68], "text": " one of those pivotal moments. It is as big as switching from browser-based, computer PC-based"}, {"timestamp": [3119.68, 3127.04], "text": " to mobile-based, but it is the underlying capacity of AI is, I'm not going to say bigger"}, {"timestamp": [3127.04, 3132.64], "text": " or it's not bigger or less than internet, but it's different, right? It's very different. And so,"}, {"timestamp": [3132.64, 3137.6], "text": " let's talk about like, let's talk about the good timeline versus the bad timeline, because there's,"}, {"timestamp": [3137.6, 3141.6], "text": " there's like, what are you, what are you personally worried about in terms of what"}, {"timestamp": [3141.6, 3145.4], "text": " you're seeing right now? Well, let's just talk about timeline first"}, {"timestamp": [3145.4, 3146.62], "text": " and then we'll get into the good and the bad."}, {"timestamp": [3146.62, 3149.06], "text": " And I wanna give a real specific example, David."}, {"timestamp": [3149.06, 3152.92], "text": " So in a class that I'm taking right now for my MFA,"}, {"timestamp": [3152.92, 3155.82], "text": " like for this semester, I was like, okay,"}, {"timestamp": [3155.82, 3160.82], "text": " I'm gonna write a longer piece on AIs in the classroom."}, {"timestamp": [3161.84, 3166.56], "text": " And so when I started this piece in August, let's say, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [3166.56, 3171.6], "text": " I started to build this up and I actually went to schools, I talked to teachers, like, none of them"}, {"timestamp": [3171.6, 3176.0], "text": " had really, like, like, honestly, none of them had heard this, even like the school my kids go to,"}, {"timestamp": [3176.0, 3181.76], "text": " I live in Silicon Valley. It's a bunch of like tech execs at the school. And I actually went to"}, {"timestamp": [3181.76, 3185.42], "text": " the high school and was talking to a bunch of kids."}, {"timestamp": [3185.42, 3189.3], "text": " This would have been November about GPT-3,"}, {"timestamp": [3189.3, 3193.18], "text": " maybe 20, 30% of them had ever even heard of GPT-3"}, {"timestamp": [3193.18, 3194.38], "text": " or the concept."}, {"timestamp": [3194.38, 3195.22], "text": " I mean, like they,"}, {"timestamp": [3195.22, 3197.74], "text": " and like only one even admitted to using it."}, {"timestamp": [3197.74, 3199.7], "text": " Like, and I truly believe the others are like,"}, {"timestamp": [3199.7, 3200.54], "text": " what are you talking about?"}, {"timestamp": [3200.54, 3201.92], "text": " I don't know what you're talking about, old man."}, {"timestamp": [3201.92, 3204.9], "text": " Like, they didn't know."}, {"timestamp": [3204.9, 3205.04], "text": " And so as I'm working on this paper, like it was supposed to be like a 2,500 word piece, I don't know what you're talking about, old man. They didn't know."}, {"timestamp": [3205.04, 3210.48], "text": " And so as I'm working on this paper, it's supposed to be a 2500-word piece, longer,"}, {"timestamp": [3210.48, 3213.8], "text": " interviews, all this other kind of stuff."}, {"timestamp": [3213.8, 3219.44], "text": " As I'm about to hand this in, getting close to handing this in, Chat GPT releases."}, {"timestamp": [3219.44, 3227.28], "text": " And within a week, like everything changed. Like the timeline that I was thinking back in"}, {"timestamp": [3227.28, 3233.12], "text": " August, September, for how long this is going to be, even I had some, there was a couple,"}, {"timestamp": [3233.12, 3238.56], "text": " there weren't many, but a few articles that I was able to find written earlier in 2022"}, {"timestamp": [3239.2, 3246.52], "text": " about AI in the classroom. They're like, yeah, this is going to start to change things. Just wait a few years from now, this is changing everything."}, {"timestamp": [3247.8, 3253.52], "text": " Within like a week, it started to become really clear that like, oh, this isn't a weak thing."}, {"timestamp": [3254.56, 3266.64], "text": " You know, I think Sam Altman, who's the CEO of OpenAI, had tweeted, they've reached a million users of chat GPT within five days."}, {"timestamp": [3266.64, 3272.24], "text": " Pretty crazy. Now, how many are true? It's a free product. How many of them are true users?"}, {"timestamp": [3272.24, 3277.12], "text": " You could argue all these things, but still, there was a million different accounts on OpenAI"}, {"timestamp": [3277.12, 3281.92], "text": " that had used this product in a very, very short amount of time."}, {"timestamp": [3281.92, 3285.24], "text": " Like, that's astronomical and so"}, {"timestamp": [3285.36, 3288.92], "text": " To your point just like about timelines in general"}, {"timestamp": [3289.12, 3294.76], "text": " like it's really hard to even just predict like what the timelines are going to be because"}, {"timestamp": [3295.4, 3297.8], "text": " Truly what I thought the timeline was going to be"}, {"timestamp": [3298.36, 3300.36], "text": " five months ago is"}, {"timestamp": [3300.6, 3305.0], "text": " Nowhere near what it seems to be today."}, {"timestamp": [3305.08, 3306.58], "text": " And like, is it just,"}, {"timestamp": [3306.58, 3307.42], "text": " because this is hard,"}, {"timestamp": [3307.42, 3311.16], "text": " it's just hard for humans to imagine exponential growth."}, {"timestamp": [3311.16, 3313.16], "text": " I remember having, I remember taking,"}, {"timestamp": [3313.16, 3315.0], "text": " sorry, I'm gonna total sidebar here,"}, {"timestamp": [3315.0, 3317.6], "text": " but I remember at the beginning of pandemic,"}, {"timestamp": [3317.6, 3320.84], "text": " this was like February, March, no, no, it was March."}, {"timestamp": [3320.84, 3322.48], "text": " The kids were already out of school."}, {"timestamp": [3322.48, 3324.96], "text": " Like we're doing homeschooling of them."}, {"timestamp": [3324.96, 3326.4], "text": " And I'm like, I don't even know what to do"}, {"timestamp": [3326.4, 3327.56], "text": " with my kids at that point."}, {"timestamp": [3327.56, 3329.6], "text": " Cause like the teachers weren't really giving stuff."}, {"timestamp": [3329.6, 3331.32], "text": " I got to keep them busy somehow."}, {"timestamp": [3331.32, 3333.76], "text": " And I was like, let's understand exponential growth."}, {"timestamp": [3333.76, 3335.32], "text": " And I remember we got out all like,"}, {"timestamp": [3335.32, 3338.4], "text": " we have like hundreds of Lego mini figures"}, {"timestamp": [3338.4, 3340.24], "text": " and we started to lay them out"}, {"timestamp": [3340.24, 3342.22], "text": " and to try and explain exponential growth."}, {"timestamp": [3342.22, 3345.4], "text": " Because part of this was also for the pandemic,"}, {"timestamp": [3345.4, 3347.68], "text": " but I was explaining like, are not,"}, {"timestamp": [3347.68, 3350.24], "text": " and like, you know, like the growth trajectory"}, {"timestamp": [3350.24, 3352.56], "text": " of a virus and so forth."}, {"timestamp": [3352.56, 3356.92], "text": " And it was really hard to grasp that."}, {"timestamp": [3356.92, 3360.32], "text": " And so using Legos as a visual representation of like,"}, {"timestamp": [3360.32, 3362.5], "text": " hey, this is what like linear growth looks like."}, {"timestamp": [3362.5, 3371.52], "text": " This is what exponential growth looks like. It's shocking. And just like how after like, you know, a few days of doubling or tripling"}, {"timestamp": [3371.52, 3376.16], "text": " or whatever it might be, what that means, that's the path that we're going down here."}, {"timestamp": [3377.28, 3384.48], "text": " And even for people who are in it, are aware of this, you know, shortcoming of us psychologically"}, {"timestamp": [3384.48, 3388.04], "text": " of just like how hard it is for us to grasp these things."}, {"timestamp": [3388.04, 3389.28], "text": " Because in our caveman days,"}, {"timestamp": [3389.28, 3392.72], "text": " we never really had to deal with much exponential growth."}, {"timestamp": [3392.72, 3397.36], "text": " And anyways, this is just something for all of us,"}, {"timestamp": [3397.36, 3398.36], "text": " it's gonna be really hard"}, {"timestamp": [3398.36, 3400.56], "text": " to even understand the timeline."}, {"timestamp": [3400.56, 3402.28], "text": " So now, to your question though,"}, {"timestamp": [3402.28, 3404.92], "text": " so that's on the timeline,"}, {"timestamp": [3404.92, 3405.0], "text": " to get to what's the good path versus the bad path, So now, to your question though, sorry, that's on the timeline."}, {"timestamp": [3405.0, 3415.44], "text": " To get to, you know, what's the good path versus the bad path, look, I think, I hope"}, {"timestamp": [3415.44, 3421.0], "text": " that this is going to be a tool that is just going to enable more creativity, that is going"}, {"timestamp": [3421.0, 3428.88], "text": " to be able to level the playing field so that you don't have to have a writing partner. You don't necessarily have to have"}, {"timestamp": [3428.88, 3433.36], "text": " or have the resources to pay money for an editor."}, {"timestamp": [3433.36, 3438.36], "text": " You don't have to, you know, translation has already kind of gone away in many ways,"}, {"timestamp": [3438.36, 3441.6], "text": " but like let's just say translation or something like that if you want"}, {"timestamp": [3441.6, 3445.68], "text": " to read something that's in another market or something"}, {"timestamp": [3445.68, 3455.84], "text": " or not written in your own native tongue, all of these things I truly hope will level the playing"}, {"timestamp": [3455.84, 3462.8], "text": " field. But that said, there are jobs that are going to go away. There are jobs that are going"}, {"timestamp": [3462.8, 3465.44], "text": " to change. I don't know what that is going"}, {"timestamp": [3465.44, 3470.8], "text": " to look like. The consensus three years ago was that, yeah, if you've got a blue collar job right"}, {"timestamp": [3470.8, 3479.68], "text": " now, you're not in a good place. But where we seem to be today is that it's more of the knowledge"}, {"timestamp": [3479.68, 3487.24], "text": " workers are going to be replaced by AI. It's the creative types, it's the designers,"}, {"timestamp": [3487.24, 3489.54], "text": " it's the artists, it's the writers."}, {"timestamp": [3491.56, 3495.8], "text": " And look, I think when we start to go down this path,"}, {"timestamp": [3495.8, 3500.44], "text": " like I don't know how we're going to avoid that"}, {"timestamp": [3500.44, 3502.36], "text": " on a macro level."}, {"timestamp": [3502.36, 3507.38], "text": " On a micro level, I think the people who are truly able"}, {"timestamp": [3507.82, 3512.82], "text": " to embrace the technology, to accept it,"}, {"timestamp": [3513.66, 3516.9], "text": " and to find a way for themselves to be more creative"}, {"timestamp": [3516.9, 3520.14], "text": " by using it, that's where you're gonna get the value."}, {"timestamp": [3520.14, 3524.62], "text": " Like, look, I think if you're a writer,"}, {"timestamp": [3524.62, 3526.32], "text": " you know, what are the things that writers hate?"}, {"timestamp": [3526.32, 3533.68], "text": " Writers hate marketing. Writers like to write. You know, writers hate doing the synopsis for my"}, {"timestamp": [3533.68, 3539.76], "text": " book, the summary for Amazon. Like, I know writers and like, it can sometimes take them more time"}, {"timestamp": [3539.76, 3545.6], "text": " doing that than it can like writing like five chapters in the book. It is like, oh, God, I have to do this."}, {"timestamp": [3545.6, 3550.32], "text": " It is so painful. That is stuff where the AI can really, really help."}, {"timestamp": [3551.92, 3558.48], "text": " And so, if you can be a kind of person who can embrace that for, you know, the non, let's just"}, {"timestamp": [3558.48, 3566.24], "text": " say the non-value added stuff or, you know, to frankly never have writer's block. To just be in front of a page and say, hey,"}, {"timestamp": [3566.24, 3570.4], "text": " can you give me three different directions I can go with this story. I'm stuck here."}, {"timestamp": [3570.4, 3577.04], "text": " This character arc is giving me trouble. And to use that, I think that that's going to be"}, {"timestamp": [3577.04, 3582.24], "text": " really powerful. Again, it's going to be like having the advantage of having a writing partner,"}, {"timestamp": [3583.04, 3585.92], "text": " which is not something we all have the advantage of having a writing partner which is not something we all have the advantage of having."}, {"timestamp": [3585.92, 3586.92], "text": " Yeah."}, {"timestamp": [3586.92, 3595.08], "text": " I just want to pause and give some appreciation to the gravity of some of what you are bringing"}, {"timestamp": [3595.08, 3600.0], "text": " up here because, you know, recently there has been a huge backlash against AI generated"}, {"timestamp": [3600.0, 3607.28], "text": " art and there is even some I had some mild controversy of my own because I took down"}, {"timestamp": [3607.28, 3613.2], "text": " some of the tools that I was making that would write novels or parts of novels automatically"}, {"timestamp": [3613.2, 3617.84], "text": " and I took it down a few months ago because I was like hold on, you know, most of my friends"}, {"timestamp": [3617.84, 3622.24], "text": " are writers and my fiance is a writer and I was like I don't want to hurt the people I care about"}, {"timestamp": [3622.24, 3628.5], "text": " and like you said, part of the problem is disruption at this point is inevitable."}, {"timestamp": [3628.5, 3630.86], "text": " We can't put this genie back in the bottle."}, {"timestamp": [3630.86, 3631.86], "text": " So what do we do?"}, {"timestamp": [3631.86, 3634.4], "text": " And like you said, we don't know enough right now."}, {"timestamp": [3634.4, 3637.36], "text": " We don't have good answers, certainly not on the macro level."}, {"timestamp": [3637.36, 3640.46], "text": " So that is definitely something to be worried about."}, {"timestamp": [3640.46, 3643.84], "text": " And then also the scale of disruption, right?"}, {"timestamp": [3643.84, 3647.12], "text": " Our imagination, we can't imagine what it's going to be like"}, {"timestamp": [3647.12, 3649.84], "text": " if, you know, employment numbers change."}, {"timestamp": [3649.84, 3653.36], "text": " And of course, you know, historically, there's one ray of hope here,"}, {"timestamp": [3653.36, 3657.92], "text": " is historically new technologies ultimately result in more jobs, right?"}, {"timestamp": [3657.92, 3661.28], "text": " Where, you know, labor gets easier, people are more productive,"}, {"timestamp": [3661.28, 3663.28], "text": " there's more money to go around, there's more money to spend,"}, {"timestamp": [3663.28, 3666.28], "text": " which means demand for other services. But, you know, of course, there's more money to go around, there's more money to spend, which means demand for other services."}, {"timestamp": [3666.28, 3670.72], "text": " But of course there's the possibility that it might not pan out that way, especially"}, {"timestamp": [3670.72, 3675.26], "text": " if the machine is cheaper than the human labor and you just take it away from people and"}, {"timestamp": [3675.26, 3677.6], "text": " then who owns the machines, right?"}, {"timestamp": [3677.6, 3682.76], "text": " And then, of course, this is the dark timeline speculation."}, {"timestamp": [3682.76, 3689.22], "text": " And so do you have any reactions to that or any comments or thoughts on ownership or responsibility"}, {"timestamp": [3689.22, 3691.6], "text": " for some of this stuff?"}, {"timestamp": [3691.6, 3698.48], "text": " The thing that I do struggle most about is really the training models."}, {"timestamp": [3698.48, 3705.0], "text": " That is where I'm, because as humans, we learn by mimicry."}, {"timestamp": [3705.0, 3707.56], "text": " Anybody who has a little kid or has had a little kid"}, {"timestamp": [3707.56, 3710.08], "text": " or been around little kids know that that is just"}, {"timestamp": [3710.08, 3713.4], "text": " how we learn as humans and we carry this throughout our lives."}, {"timestamp": [3713.4, 3714.76], "text": " We learn by mimicking."}, {"timestamp": [3714.76, 3716.88], "text": " We learn by mimicking."}, {"timestamp": [3716.88, 3721.32], "text": " Anybody who has written as a teenager,"}, {"timestamp": [3721.32, 3723.8], "text": " I'm sure if you still have your stuff as a teenager,"}, {"timestamp": [3723.8, 3728.32], "text": " go back and read what you wrote. It'll probably make you want to throw up because you're like, oh, this"}, {"timestamp": [3728.32, 3735.02], "text": " is just me mimicking Isaac Asimov or whatever it is that you were reading at the time was"}, {"timestamp": [3735.02, 3740.16], "text": " doing that. I remember writing something once as a kid. I was like, oh my God. I just like,"}, {"timestamp": [3740.16, 3745.08], "text": " and then after I wrote it, realized I'm just rewriting Watchmen."}, {"timestamp": [3745.08, 3748.16], "text": " Like, it just, and it didn't even dawn on me though."}, {"timestamp": [3748.16, 3750.32], "text": " I'm like, this is just ripping off Alan Moore."}, {"timestamp": [3750.32, 3752.64], "text": " Like, what am I even doing here?"}, {"timestamp": [3752.64, 3756.2], "text": " And that's probably how I got away from writing in my youth."}, {"timestamp": [3757.56, 3761.2], "text": " So look, as humans, we have always done this,"}, {"timestamp": [3761.2, 3766.8], "text": " but like to have an AI model that is being trained on, and let's just stick with"}, {"timestamp": [3766.8, 3774.32], "text": " art for a second, on artists who may not have explicitly, who have not, mind you, explicitly"}, {"timestamp": [3774.32, 3787.36], "text": " given permission to use their artwork, I think that, you know, are they open to some sort of compensation? Are they open to saying,"}, {"timestamp": [3788.0, 3793.28], "text": " you can't use this? Like, I don't know how you say you can't, because here's the thing, like,"}, {"timestamp": [3793.92, 3804.0], "text": " even if, okay, I'm going with my comic roots here. So, there was a very, so very popular artist in"}, {"timestamp": [3804.0, 3808.0], "text": " the 1990s, a guy who was named Rob Liefeld, who in many ways is now"}, {"timestamp": [3808.0, 3810.76], "text": " a punching bag for the style he created."}, {"timestamp": [3810.76, 3818.2], "text": " It was the epitome of 90s male machismo comic art style."}, {"timestamp": [3818.2, 3822.84], "text": " But the style that he created got mimicked by so many others."}, {"timestamp": [3822.84, 3826.76], "text": " So even if Rob Liefeld today said,"}, {"timestamp": [3826.76, 3828.0], "text": " cause I could, and I've done this,"}, {"timestamp": [3828.0, 3829.76], "text": " I've literally went into something and said,"}, {"timestamp": [3829.76, 3831.84], "text": " hey, do something in the style of Rob Liefeld."}, {"timestamp": [3831.84, 3832.84], "text": " I'm like, ah, that's it."}, {"timestamp": [3832.84, 3835.4], "text": " I can totally recognize the style and everything."}, {"timestamp": [3835.4, 3837.5], "text": " Even if he said, you can't use my style."}, {"timestamp": [3839.26, 3841.12], "text": " There's so many people that came after him"}, {"timestamp": [3841.12, 3844.7], "text": " that were mimicking his style that we never once said like,"}, {"timestamp": [3844.7, 3845.52], "text": " hey, even though"}, {"timestamp": [3845.52, 3851.84], "text": " you're making your own original work, you can't mimic that. You know, that then creates a whole"}, {"timestamp": [3851.84, 3856.8], "text": " thing. Well, then, do we, what if they want to be included in there? What if they want to, like,"}, {"timestamp": [3857.44, 3865.72], "text": " you know, have opted in, but their own style is in some way an homage or mimicking or however you want to think of it of that like"}, {"timestamp": [3865.86, 3867.86], "text": " What do we do in those situations?"}, {"timestamp": [3869.18, 3874.76], "text": " This is something I mean, so honestly, this is something where I'm really sympathetic to both sides here"}, {"timestamp": [3874.76, 3876.88], "text": " Like I I totally see both sides"}, {"timestamp": [3876.88, 3884.56], "text": " I don't know what the answer is and this is a really complicated question that our legal system as it exists today with"}, {"timestamp": [3884.84, 3887.12], "text": " copyright is nowhere near"}, {"timestamp": [3887.12, 3892.72], "text": " having a clear solution on. And frankly, at least in the U.S., the sooner we get down that path,"}, {"timestamp": [3892.72, 3899.76], "text": " the better. But here's the reality is like U.S. is just one of 195 countries in the world."}, {"timestamp": [3905.4, 3912.16], "text": " Copyright law is very different wherever you go. Ask any, you know, author what they, you know, how much money,"}, {"timestamp": [3912.16, 3914.42], "text": " ask any American author how much money they make"}, {"timestamp": [3914.42, 3916.2], "text": " for their books that are being sold in Iran."}, {"timestamp": [3916.2, 3918.48], "text": " And the answer is going to be zero."}, {"timestamp": [3918.48, 3921.36], "text": " Because basically Iran does not respect,"}, {"timestamp": [3921.36, 3923.28], "text": " I shouldn't even say respect,"}, {"timestamp": [3923.28, 3925.2], "text": " Iran does not recognize U and I shouldn't even say respect is that Iran does not recognize"}, {"timestamp": [3925.2, 3931.28], "text": " us copyright law so if you want to take a American book translate into Farsi that is"}, {"timestamp": [3931.28, 3936.96], "text": " completely legal um to do that uh for example and and that's what the local laws are so"}, {"timestamp": [3937.92, 3942.32], "text": " you're gonna have 195 different versions of them like I don't know what this is going to look like"}, {"timestamp": [3942.32, 3945.74], "text": " this is you know it gets into geopolitics,"}, {"timestamp": [3945.74, 3946.58], "text": " you know, and so forth."}, {"timestamp": [3946.58, 3949.76], "text": " Like the one thing that at least I try and do"}, {"timestamp": [3949.76, 3954.76], "text": " as part of all this is I just disclose like crazy."}, {"timestamp": [3954.76, 3959.4], "text": " So when I'm writing something, you know, I will,"}, {"timestamp": [3959.4, 3961.84], "text": " if I'm using, so the example I gave before"}, {"timestamp": [3961.84, 3963.5], "text": " for what I was doing in my class,"}, {"timestamp": [3964.42, 3967.5], "text": " in that one specifically, I actually color-coded it."}, {"timestamp": [3967.5, 3970.6], "text": " I literally said, okay, the green section, boom,"}, {"timestamp": [3970.6, 3973.62], "text": " and I put in footnotes where everything came from,"}, {"timestamp": [3973.62, 3975.08], "text": " and how I was prompting."}, {"timestamp": [3975.08, 3977.12], "text": " Whenever I even just use an image,"}, {"timestamp": [3977.12, 3981.48], "text": " so I write on Medium and on LinkedIn."}, {"timestamp": [3981.48, 3983.16], "text": " If I'm using an AI image,"}, {"timestamp": [3983.16, 3984.24], "text": " which I use lots of,"}, {"timestamp": [3984.24, 3986.96], "text": " I will actually put this image"}, {"timestamp": [3987.92, 3994.64], "text": " was developed on MidJourney by Michael Tadasco on this date from this prompt. And I literally put"}, {"timestamp": [3994.64, 4011.76], "text": " it in there verbatim. And if I said I'd use Rob also not monetizing this, but at least I think step one is being"}, {"timestamp": [4011.76, 4016.04], "text": " transparent with disclosure on this. It makes me feel a little bit more comfortable, even"}, {"timestamp": [4016.04, 4028.88], "text": " though I know if I made a picture of a flying tomato, even if I didn't say artist X in there, artist X might still be"}, {"timestamp": [4028.88, 4036.48], "text": " inspiring that. That makes sense. Yeah, and phenomenal breakdown of the problem. And again,"}, {"timestamp": [4038.08, 4043.2], "text": " us two talking in an afternoon, we're not going to solve this problem. But it's good to,"}, {"timestamp": [4044.48, 4048.18], "text": " especially as the world is catching up because, again, the whole reason"}, {"timestamp": [4048.18, 4053.28], "text": " that we're doing this podcast is things are changing so fast and, you know, we have an"}, {"timestamp": [4053.28, 4059.1], "text": " opportunity here to at least add to the conversation and help demystify it and keep the conversation"}, {"timestamp": [4059.1, 4060.1], "text": " moving forward."}, {"timestamp": [4060.1, 4065.6], "text": " So just thanks again for coming on and sharing all of that perspective."}, {"timestamp": [4065.6, 4067.44], "text": " Phenomenal talk."}, {"timestamp": [4067.44, 4070.48], "text": " So I have just a few last questions."}, {"timestamp": [4070.48, 4072.48], "text": " What are you up to now?"}, {"timestamp": [4072.48, 4074.48], "text": " Who do you want to talk to?"}, {"timestamp": [4074.48, 4076.48], "text": " And how do people reach you?"}, {"timestamp": [4076.48, 4079.6], "text": " If there's anything you want to plug or just tell everyone like,"}, {"timestamp": [4079.6, 4081.6], "text": " what is it that Mike Tadasco is up to now?"}, {"timestamp": [4081.6, 4084.8], "text": " What do you want to be known for in 2023?"}, {"timestamp": [4084.8, 4085.48], "text": " What do I want to be known for in 2023?"}, {"timestamp": [4085.48, 4086.92], "text": " What do I want to be known for?"}, {"timestamp": [4086.92, 4089.32], "text": " Man, you're making me set my goals a few weeks early."}, {"timestamp": [4089.32, 4089.96], "text": " I love it."}, {"timestamp": [4089.96, 4091.8], "text": " I love it, David."}, {"timestamp": [4091.8, 4094.64], "text": " Look, I am super, super fascinated"}, {"timestamp": [4094.64, 4096.04], "text": " with the world of generative AI."}, {"timestamp": [4096.04, 4097.8], "text": " I mean, the whole reason I got to meet you"}, {"timestamp": [4097.8, 4100.96], "text": " was just watching your YouTube videos over the summer"}, {"timestamp": [4100.96, 4103.12], "text": " and being like, oh my god, this guy,"}, {"timestamp": [4103.12, 4106.0], "text": " I learned so much from you in these videos"}, {"timestamp": [4106.0, 4110.0], "text": " of just how to think through a problem and like, what are the limitations and so forth."}, {"timestamp": [4110.0, 4112.44], "text": " So for that, I deeply thank you."}, {"timestamp": [4112.44, 4119.44], "text": " And look, I want to meet and I want to just talk to smart people in this space."}, {"timestamp": [4119.44, 4121.8], "text": " I'm fascinated."}, {"timestamp": [4121.8, 4126.62], "text": " I have no agenda in many ways. Like I'm, I want to just learn"}, {"timestamp": [4126.62, 4130.04], "text": " and I want us as a society to come out"}, {"timestamp": [4130.04, 4135.04], "text": " in a better place than what we can, than what we might."}, {"timestamp": [4135.16, 4137.76], "text": " I want us to not go down that dark timeline"}, {"timestamp": [4137.76, 4140.32], "text": " and I want us to just kind of think about it."}, {"timestamp": [4140.32, 4145.0], "text": " And for me, I think it means like, it is an inevitability."}, {"timestamp": [4145.0, 4147.34], "text": " Like I think we in many ways as a society"}, {"timestamp": [4147.34, 4149.02], "text": " just have to accept that."}, {"timestamp": [4149.02, 4152.62], "text": " But given that, like what is the best way"}, {"timestamp": [4152.62, 4156.02], "text": " that we can embrace these tools for the most good?"}, {"timestamp": [4156.02, 4159.14], "text": " And look, if you're a founder and working on something"}, {"timestamp": [4159.14, 4160.7], "text": " and you wanna bounce ideas off me"}, {"timestamp": [4160.7, 4162.42], "text": " or if you're just interested in the space"}, {"timestamp": [4162.42, 4166.76], "text": " or anything like that, I'd love to discuss more."}, {"timestamp": [4166.76, 4174.8], "text": " So I write on Medium and LinkedIn, as I said before, just my last name, Todasco, T-O-D-A-S-C-O,"}, {"timestamp": [4174.8, 4178.08], "text": " is where you can reach me on both of those."}, {"timestamp": [4178.08, 4183.08], "text": " I'm pretty much read-only on Twitter, but if you do send a tweet to me, I will respond"}, {"timestamp": [4183.08, 4184.08], "text": " to it."}, {"timestamp": [4184.08, 4186.64], "text": " I just don't post much myself. I'm also"}, {"timestamp": [4186.64, 4194.88], "text": " Tadasco on Twitter. I love just the intro. Just today on Twitter, I found out, again,"}, {"timestamp": [4194.88, 4198.48], "text": " just sorry, I know we're wrapping, but to throw it out there, I literally just saw this this"}, {"timestamp": [4198.48, 4205.0], "text": " morning. It was a wonderful use case for generative AI and using GPT-3,"}, {"timestamp": [4205.28, 4208.12], "text": " there's this thing called Help a Reporter Out,"}, {"timestamp": [4208.12, 4211.24], "text": " H-A-R-O, H-A-R-O, and it's been around for years."}, {"timestamp": [4211.24, 4214.92], "text": " And I'm on it, and basically, it's any reporter in the US"}, {"timestamp": [4214.92, 4219.18], "text": " who needs somebody who's an expert in AI"}, {"timestamp": [4219.18, 4222.2], "text": " or whatever it might be, just puts out a request,"}, {"timestamp": [4222.2, 4225.2], "text": " and it's this huge list, hundreds and hundreds of links."}, {"timestamp": [4225.2, 4227.3], "text": " It's a disaster."}, {"timestamp": [4227.3, 4230.72], "text": " Somebody just made this thing in Zapier that basically says, okay, when you see that in"}, {"timestamp": [4230.72, 4236.14], "text": " Gmail, fill out this spreadsheet, this will have some keywords."}, {"timestamp": [4236.14, 4238.4], "text": " And then we're going to then send that."}, {"timestamp": [4238.4, 4242.56], "text": " We're going to do some sort of match using GPT-3."}, {"timestamp": [4242.56, 4245.0], "text": " And then based on what they're looking for,"}, {"timestamp": [4245.0, 4248.6], "text": " based on what you say your abilities are,"}, {"timestamp": [4248.6, 4250.2], "text": " we're going to even generate a cover letter"}, {"timestamp": [4250.2, 4251.8], "text": " that you could send out to them."}, {"timestamp": [4251.8, 4255.6], "text": " And they just built that in Zapier at like, it's beautiful."}, {"timestamp": [4255.6, 4257.2], "text": " Like, it's just this beautiful thing."}, {"timestamp": [4257.2, 4259.96], "text": " I'm like, oh my God, like that was just this morning"}, {"timestamp": [4259.96, 4263.64], "text": " I saw that and I'm like, you know, all of these use cases,"}, {"timestamp": [4263.64, 4265.1], "text": " it's so simple, but like that I'm like, you know, all of these use cases, it's so simple,"}, {"timestamp": [4265.1, 4268.38], "text": " but like that I'm sure for a lot of people"}, {"timestamp": [4268.38, 4270.34], "text": " is going to make their lives so much better."}, {"timestamp": [4270.34, 4271.58], "text": " It's going to make it so much easier"}, {"timestamp": [4271.58, 4273.02], "text": " for reporters to find people,"}, {"timestamp": [4273.02, 4274.52], "text": " for people to find reporters."}, {"timestamp": [4274.52, 4277.3], "text": " And like, it's taking something that was built 20 years ago"}, {"timestamp": [4277.3, 4278.78], "text": " and putting a vast improvement"}, {"timestamp": [4278.78, 4282.38], "text": " for effectively zero costs on top of it."}, {"timestamp": [4282.38, 4284.74], "text": " Wow, yeah, that's a phenomenal use case."}, {"timestamp": [4284.74, 4287.56], "text": " And it actually reminds me, so I'm a writer as well."}, {"timestamp": [4287.56, 4290.64], "text": " And one of the possibilities that I foresee"}, {"timestamp": [4290.64, 4294.12], "text": " in terms of as AI gets bigger and decentralized"}, {"timestamp": [4294.12, 4295.64], "text": " and networked and stuff is,"}, {"timestamp": [4295.64, 4298.4], "text": " what if you have a machine or an AI that just says,"}, {"timestamp": [4298.4, 4300.6], "text": " hey, I know who you need to talk to."}, {"timestamp": [4300.6, 4302.76], "text": " Like, you're gonna be great friends with this person"}, {"timestamp": [4302.76, 4303.78], "text": " and makes the introduction."}, {"timestamp": [4303.78, 4308.74], "text": " Like, if you want to, obviously like consent matters, privacy matters, but it's like, hey, there's someone that you might wanna talk to. You're going to be great friends with this person and make the introduction. If you want to. Obviously, consent matters, privacy matters, but it's like, hey, there's someone"}, {"timestamp": [4308.74, 4311.74], "text": " that you might want to talk to. You might want to go work with this person or you might"}, {"timestamp": [4311.74, 4317.86], "text": " want to get to know this person. Something like that. And what you just said, this happened"}, {"timestamp": [4317.86, 4322.22], "text": " decades before I thought it would be possible just because the tools, the platforms, and"}, {"timestamp": [4322.22, 4326.22], "text": " they're recombining with Zapier and Twitter and Gmail and everything else."}, {"timestamp": [4326.22, 4327.38], "text": " And that's just phenomenal."}, {"timestamp": [4327.38, 4328.68], "text": " Thank you for sharing that, by the way."}, {"timestamp": [4328.68, 4329.8], "text": " That's great."}, {"timestamp": [4329.8, 4332.02], "text": " Sure, I'll share the link as well."}, {"timestamp": [4332.02, 4332.86], "text": " It was amazing."}, {"timestamp": [4332.86, 4335.0], "text": " I'd love to give the credit to the person who created it."}, {"timestamp": [4335.0, 4335.84], "text": " So."}, {"timestamp": [4335.84, 4336.76], "text": " Excellent, perfect, perfect."}, {"timestamp": [4336.76, 4340.3], "text": " Well, thanks again, Mike, for this amazing talk"}, {"timestamp": [4340.3, 4341.5], "text": " and everything that you do"}, {"timestamp": [4341.5, 4343.46], "text": " and just being willing to help out."}, {"timestamp": [4344.32, 4347.5], "text": " And yeah, so for all the members of my audience,"}, {"timestamp": [4347.5, 4350.5], "text": " reach out to Mike on LinkedIn and Medium."}, {"timestamp": [4350.5, 4352.7], "text": " Those are his primary stomping grounds."}, {"timestamp": [4352.7, 4355.4], "text": " And who knows, maybe this time next year,"}, {"timestamp": [4355.4, 4356.9], "text": " we'll be in an entirely different world,"}, {"timestamp": [4356.9, 4359.0], "text": " having another year-end recap."}, {"timestamp": [4359.0, 4360.4], "text": " So thanks, everyone."}, {"timestamp": [4360.4, 4364.0], "text": " And Mike, any one or two last words?"}, {"timestamp": [4364.0, 4368.32], "text": " Lastly, look, everyone, just be good to others."}, {"timestamp": [4368.32, 4370.28], "text": " Just think, I think David,"}, {"timestamp": [4370.28, 4371.76], "text": " you'd even said this in a recent thing,"}, {"timestamp": [4371.76, 4373.72], "text": " just like, look, this is a hard time"}, {"timestamp": [4373.72, 4374.54], "text": " that we're going through."}, {"timestamp": [4374.54, 4376.76], "text": " We're going through a step change"}, {"timestamp": [4376.76, 4378.46], "text": " as a society through this."}, {"timestamp": [4379.64, 4381.8], "text": " Think ahead, think about how we're going to help"}, {"timestamp": [4381.8, 4383.68], "text": " our common man and woman"}, {"timestamp": [4383.68, 4386.48], "text": " with what we're trying to build through this."}, {"timestamp": [4386.48, 4388.74], "text": " Be good to others and, you know,"}, {"timestamp": [4388.74, 4392.38], "text": " let's build some wonderful world-changing products together."}, {"timestamp": [4393.52, 4395.2], "text": " Excellent. Thanks so much."}, {"timestamp": [4395.2, 4399.08], "text": " See everyone next time and yeah, be excellent to each other."}, {"timestamp": [4397.19, 4399.25], "text": " you"}]}